
Contents 	ESG at Citi 	Sustainable Finance 	Sustainable Progress 	Equitable & Resilient Communities 	Talent & DEI 	Risk Management & Responsible Business 	AppendicesESG at Citi	5	Letter	from	Our	CEO8	Our	ESG	StrategyTable	of	10	ESG	Governance	at	Citi13	Our	Material	ESG	Issues:	Citi	in	a	Global	Context	16	Citi	and	the	Sustainable	Development	Goals	Contents	17	Stakeholder	Engagement	at	CitiSustainable Finance	20	Our	$1	Trillion	CommitmentSustainable Progress	33	Financing	the	Low-Carbon	Transition	37	Climate	Risk	and	Net	Zero	50	Sustainable	OperationsEquitable and Resilient Communities	62	Our	Commitment	to	Social	Finance	66	Action for Racial Equity	70	Citi	Impact	Fund	72	COVID-19	Relief	and	Recovery2	75	Affordable	Housing	78	Strategic	PhilanthropyTalent and Diversity, Equity & Inclusion	81	Return	to	Office	and	the	Future	of	Work	83	Diversity,	Equity	&	Inclusion97	Using	Our	Corporate	Voice	to	Drive	Change 99	Employment	DataRisk Management and Responsible Business	104	Our	Transformation	110	Risk	Management	121	Serving	Our	Customers	and	Clients	Responsibly	125	Human	Rights	134	Responsible	SourcingAppendices	139	GRI	Content	Index	150	Sustainability	Accounting	Standards	Board	Index	155	The	Principles	for	Responsible	Banking	Index	168	Task	Force	on	Climate-related	Financial				Disclosures	Index	170	United	Nations	Global	Compact	Index	172	United	Nations	Guiding	Principles	Reporting				Framework	Index	176	AssuranceThis report illustrates how we bring our mission to life through our business; it covers our environmental, social and governance (ESG) activities, performance and approach for calendar year 2021, focusing on the issues we have determined to be of material1 importance from an ESG perspective, which is a broader standard than that used in our financial disclosures. This	report	has	been	prepared	in	accordance	with	the	GRI	Standards:	Core	option.	We	also	used	three	relevant	sector	standards	from	the	Sustainability	Accounting	Standards	Board,	the	Principles	for	Responsible	Banking,	the	United	Nations	(UN)	Global	Compact	and	the	UN	Guiding	Principles	on	Business	and	Human	Rights	frameworks	to	guide	our	reporting.	(See	related	indexes.)	We	have	embedded	the	UN	Sustainable	Development	Goals	into	relevant	sections	of	the	report	where	Citi	plays	a	direct	role	in	making	progress	toward	specific	goals.	Additionally,	we	include	an	index	that	indicates	where	report	content	is	specifically	aligned	to	the	recommendations	of	the	Financial	Stability	Board’s	Task	Force	on	Climate-related	Financial	Disclosures.	Finally,	this	report	supplements	information	published	in	our	2021	Annual	Report.	All	reporting	and	performance	data	are	limited	to	information	for	the	owned	and	operated	facilities	of	Citigroup	Inc.	and	its	subsidiaries,	unless	stated	otherwise.	Additional	information	about	Citi	can	be	found	on	our	website.	For	more	information	on	Citi’s	ESG	initiatives,	please	visit	citigroup.com/citi/about/esg/	or	contact:	Global Public Affairs Citigroup	Inc.	388	Greenwich	St.	New	York,	NY	10013	sustainability@citi.com1.	Refer	to	page	16	for	our	definition	of	material	issues	in	the	context	of	this	report.
In This Section	5	Letter	from	Our	CEO	8	Our	ESG	Strategy	10	ESG	Governance	at	Citi	13	Our	Material	ESG	Issues:	Citi	in	a	Global	Context16 Citi	and	the	Sustainable	Development	Goals17 Stakeholder	Engagement	at	CitiLetter	from	Our	CEO
As	I	write	this	note	in	late	April,	a	war	is	raging	in	Ukraine	with	significant	global	ramifications.From	the	beginning,	we	have	prioritized	the	humanitarian	crisis,	doing	everything	we	can	to	help	the	people	in	Ukraine,	including	our	own	colleagues,	whilst	keeping	our	business	there	operating	so	we	can	support	critical	supply	chains	and	the	NGOs	delivering	essential	aid.	We	are	also	helping	our	multinational	clients	who	have	decided	to	wind	down	their	business	in	Russia.Although	it	might	be	too	early	to	predict	the	war’s	long-term	impact	on	the	world	order,	it’s	not	too	soon	to	begin	asking	what	it	means	for	the	issues	at	the	heart	of	our	ESG	agenda	—	and	the	ESG	agendas	of	so	many	other	companies.I	recently	returned	from	seeing	clients	in	Europe	and	the	Middle	East,	and	it	is	security	—	be	it	energy,	food,	defense,	cyber	or	operational	—	that’s	now	consuming	their	attention.	The	challenges	facing	our	society	have	not	only	reinforced	the	need	for	businesses	such	as	Citi	to	step	up,	but	also	the	critical	importance	of	collaboration	on	a	global	scale.Consider	the	climate	crisis.	At	Citi,	we’ve	been	proud	to	play	a	leading	role	in	our	industry’s	drive	to	a	more	sustainable	future,	and	in	recent	months,	we	released	our	initial	plan	for	reaching	net	zero	emissions	by	2050.	But	Russia’s	role	as	a	major	energy	producer	is	forcing	governments	to	reevaluate	their	energy	security	and	supply.	Ultimately,	combating	climate	change	cannot	be	done	by	any	company	or	country	alone;	we	need	businesses	making	the	right	investments	to	achieve	the	necessary	shift	in	supply,	and	consumers	joining	companies	in	advocating	for	governments	to	create	the	policy	frameworks	that	will	be	essential	to	stimulating	demand	for	clean	technologies	and	providing	the	foundation	for	the	clean	energy	transition.	This	tension,	of	course,	is	not	new.	While	Citi	plays	an	enabling	role	in	the	transition	to	a	net	zero	economy,	we	understand	that	it	cannot	occur	overnight.	We	have	to	be	thoughtful	with	the	transition,	meeting	our	clients	where	they	are	in	their	efforts,	and	then	helping	and	pushing	them	to	accelerate	their	low-carbon	transitions.	Similarly,	our	efforts	to	expand	financial	access	and	opportunity	have	also	gained	new	urgency.	We	have	engaged	every	level	of	our	business	to	think	and	act	in	support	of	equity	and	the	goal	of	helping	close	the	racial	wealth	gap	and	increase	economic	mobility	in	the	United	States.	In	order	to	effectively	do	this	work	and	serve	our	clients	and	communities,	we’ve	set	—	and	recently	exceeded	—	talent	representation	goals	to	further	diversify	our	own	workforce	and	make	progress	toward	pay	equity	at	Citi.	We	also	continue	to	advance	financial	inclusion	in	underserved	communities	globally,	expanding	the	scope	of	our	work	to	areas	such	as	healthcare,	education,	affordable	housing	and	basic	infrastructure.	These	efforts	have	become	even	more	important	amidst	surging	inflation	and	an	emerging	global	food	crisis	that	could	be	devastating	for	the	world’s	poorest	countries,	which	import	much	of	their	food	and	where	households	spend	more	than	half	of	their	income	on	food.There	are,	of	course,	lessons	to	learn	and		apply	to	these	challenges,	particularly	from	the	pandemic.	COVID-19’s	disregard	for	borders	underscored	the	interconnectedness	of	society.	It	also	reminded	us	that	global	challenges	demand	a	global,	collective	response.	As	the	world	becomes	more	fragmented,	it	is	even	more	important	for	our	global	community	of	business	to	come	together	to	confront	the	big	challenges	of	our	time.At	Citi,	this	sense	of	responsibility	is	something	that	continues	to	shape	our	decisions,	business	strategy,	and	firm-wide	goals	and	commitments.	We	continue	to	be	focused	on	action	and	partnering	with	like-minded	organizations	that	are	also	doing	the	work.	And	for	us,	it’s	not	just	about	the	big	numbers;	it’s	the	small	number	—	helping	society	get	closer	to	zero.	Zero	carbon	emissions.	Zero	wealth	gap.		Zero	pay	gap.	Zero	poverty.	Some	might	say	this	is	idealistic,	but	having	ambitious	goals		is	what	helps	us	make	meaningful	progress.	And	it’s	going	to	take	all	of	us,	working	together,	to	make	sure	we	continue	to	go	in	the	right	direction.	I	invite	you	to	learn	more	about	these	initiatives	in	the	pages	that	follow.	Our	ESG	agenda	is	not	a	separate	layer	that	sits	above	what	we	do	day-to-day.	It	is	an	effort	that	we	began	at	Citi	many	years	ago	that	has	become	core	to	who	we	are	as	a	company	and	our	daily	worth	as	a	bank.	While	our	efforts	will	continue	to	evolve	to	reflect	new	global	challenges,	our	commitment	to	transparency	and	accountability	will	remain	constant.	We	will	continue	to	share	our	progress	and	lessons	learned,	and	we	will	continue	to	innovate	and	push	to	use	our	core	capabilities,	expertise	and	talent	to	lead	by	example	and	demonstrate	how	Citi	is	truly	a	bank	with	a		brain	and	a	soul.JANE FRASER	Chief	Executive	Officer
ESG	at	Citi	At Citi, our ESG agenda reflects the role and responsibility we feel as a global bank to help solve many  of society’s toughest challenges. It’s a part of our business model, and embedded in the products and  services we offer. As we continue to evolve our ESG priorities to address ever-changing realities around the world, we remain committed to sharing our progress — as we believe transparency and accountability are  key to success. 2021 Highlights	Furthered the acceleration to a  	• Committed $1 trillion in sustainable finance by 2030, including                                                   $500 billion for environmental finance and $500 billion for social finance sustainable, low-carbon economy • Financed and facilitated $222 billion in sustainable finance activity in 	that supports the needs of society	2020 and 2021• Unveiled initial plan to reach net zero emissions by 2050, including 2030 Played a leading role in driving  	targets for our Energy and Power loan portfolios 	the transition to net zero 	• Co-founded the Net Zero Banking Alliance, which will help establish an industry framework for decarbonizing the banking sector• Issued a first-of-its-kind $1 billion social finance bond to expand access 	Maximized positive social impact  	to essential services in emerging markets	and advanced financial innovations  	• Announced a new commitment, through which we aim to invest in in emerging markets	opportunities for 15 million low-income households, including 10 million women, globally by 2025• Invested $1 billion in strategic initiatives as part of Citi and the Citi  Foundation’s Action for Racial Equity commitment in year one of a threeyear commitment 	Deepened our efforts to help close  	• Launched the Diverse Financial Institutions Group to lead and expand firm-wide engagement with minority depository institutions, diverse 	the racial wealth gap and increase 	broker-dealers and diverse asset managerseconomic mobility in the U.S. • Worked exclusively with five Black-owned firms to syndicate a $2.5 billion bond issuance• Directed 68% of the Citi Impact Fund’s 2021 asset allocation to women and/or racially/ethnically diverse founders of companiesIncreased affordable housing  	•  Provided $5.6 billion in loans for affordable housing projects in 2021, making Citi the largest U.S. affordable housing development lender for 	in the U.S.	the 12th consecutive year
Continued transparency around  pay equity and increased diverse representation• Disclosed annual, public update on our pay equity review, highlighting progress on median pay for women globally and U.S. minorities • Exceeded our three-year representation goals set in 2018 to increase representation for women globally and for Black talent in the U.S. • Promoted one of the largest and most diverse Managing Director classes in recent years
Citi’s Value Proposition:  A Mission of Enabling Growth and Progress What You Can Expect from Us & What We Expect from Ourselves
Citi’s	mission	is	to	serve	as	a	trusted	partner	to	our	clients	by	responsibly	providing	financial	services	that	enable	growth	and	economic	progress.	Our	core	activities	are	safeguarding	assets,	lending	money,	making	payments	and	accessing	the	capital	markets	on	behalf	of	our	clients.	We	have	over	200	years	of	experience	helping	our	clients	meet	the	world’s	toughest	challenges	and	embrace	its	greatest	opportunities.	As	an	institution,	Citi	is	connecting	millions	of	people	across	hundreds	of	countries	and	cities.	We	protect	people’s	savings	and	help	them	make	the	purchases	—	from	everyday	transactions	to	buying	a	home	—	that	improve	the	quality	of	their	lives.	We	advise	people	on	how	to	invest	for	future	needs,	such	as	their	children’s	education	and	their	own	retirement,	and	help	them	buy	securities	such	as	stocks	and	bonds.	We	work	with	companies	to	optimize	their	daily	operations,	whether	they	need	working	capital,	to	make	payroll	or	to	export	their	goods	overseas.	By	lending	to	companies	large	and	small,	we	help	them	grow,	creating	jobs	and	real	economic	value	at	home	and	in	communities	around	the	world.	We	provide	financing	and	support	to	governments	at	all	levels,	so	they	can	build	sustainable	infrastructure,	such	as	housing,	transportation,	schools	and	other	vital	public	works.	We	have	an	obligation	to	act	responsibly.	We	also	know	that	acting	responsibly	and	sustainably	will	help	to	drive	value	for	our	different	stakeholders	and	for	our	company.	If	we	fall	short,	we	will	take	action	and	learn	from	our	experience.	We	strive	to	earn	and	maintain	the	public’s	trust	by	constantly	adhering	to	the	highest	ethical	standards.	We	ask	our	colleagues	to	ensure	that	their	decisions	pass	three	tests:	They	are	in	our	clients’	interests,	create	economic	value,	and	are	always	systemically	responsible.	When	we	do	these	things	well,	we	make	a	positive	financial	and	social	impact	in	the	communities	we	serve	and	show	what	a	global	bank	can	do.	
Our	ESG	Strategy
Through our business, we address some of society’s greatest challenges. In recent years, we have continued to advance our leadership and partnerships  across the industry as we further hone our environmental, social  and governance (ESG) strategy  and approach to managing  ESG issues and opportunities. Development	Goals	(SDGs).	These	followed	our	most	recent	Sustainable	Progress	Strategy,	which	we	launched	one	year	earlier.	Our	ESG	strategy	is	a	central	element	of	our	business	model	and	critical	to	our	strategy	for	growth.	To	help	us	achieve	our	$500	Billion	Social	Finance	Goal,	we	broadened	the	focus	of	the	Citi	Social	Finance	team	(formerly	Citi	Inclusive	Finance)	to	develop	platforms	and	client	solutions	to	help	expand	financial	inclusion,	accelerate	access	to	basic	services,	boost	job	creation	and	scale	social	infrastructure	development	in	emerging	markets.	We	believe	that	global	financial	institutions	like	Citi	have	the	opportunity	—	and	the	responsibility	—	to	play	a	leading	role	in	helping	to	drive	the	transition	to	a	low-carbon	economy.	We	are	prepared	to	implement	the	significant	changes	needed	in	our	business,	and	to	support	the	substantial	changes	that	will	be	required	for	the	world	to	transition	and	align	with	the	goals	of	the	Paris	Agreement.Helping	to	close	the	racial	wealth	gap	in	the	United	States	ranks	among	our	top	priorities,	and	in	2021,	we	made	tremendous	progress	on	our	Action for Racial Equity	commitment,	working	across	our	businesses	to	identify	ways	we	can	help	address	the	racial	wealth	gap.	As	of	November	2021	—	one	year	into	our	three-year	commitment	—	Citi	and	the	Citi	Foundation	had	already	invested	$1	billion	in	strategic	initiatives	to	help	close	the	racial	wealth	gap	and	increase	economic	mobility	in	the	United	States.	We	committed	to	conduct	a	third-party	racial	equity	audit	to	evaluate	our	Action for Racial Equity	goals	and	launched	the	Diverse	Financial	Institutions	Group,	a	centralized	team	within	Citi	that	is	serving	as	a	hub	to	lead	and	expand	firm-wide	engagement	with	minority	depository	institutions	(MDIs),	diverse	broker-dealers	and	diverse	asset	managers.	Read	more	about	our	racial	equity	initiatives	in	the	Equitable	and	Resilient	Communities	section.Additionally	in	2021,	we	announced	two	significant,	new	ESG	commitments:	a	pledge	to	achieve	net	zero	greenhouse	gas	(GHG)	emissions	by	2050	and	a	commitment	of	$1	trillion	in	sustainable	finance	by	2030	to	address	the	impacts	of	climate	change	and	other	pivotal	environmental	and	social	issues	that	align	with	the	United	Nations	Sustainable	Net	zero	involves	rethinking	our	business	and	helping	our	clients	rethink	theirs.	We	can	have	the	biggest	impact	by	reducing	Scope	3	financed	emissions,1	particularly	for	carbon-intensive	sectors	such	as	Agriculture,	Aluminum,	Cement,	Coal,	Commercial	Real	Estate,	Iron	and	Steel,	Oil	and	Gas,	Power	Generation	and	Transport.	To	reach	our	net	zero	target,	we	will	need	to	work	closely	with	our	clients	on	their	own	transitions.	Following	our	net	zero	announcement,	we	formed	an	internal	Net	Zero	Task	Force	to	help	determine	a	framework,	scope	and	the	methodologies	to	guide	our	progress	toward	this	commitment.	For	our	Energy	and	Power	loan	portfolios,	we	conducted	an	initial	assessment	of	baseline	emissions,	set	interim	2030	emissions	reduction	targets,	and	developed	initial	transition	plans.	Learn	more	in	the	Climate	Risk	&	Net	Zero	section	and	in	our	2021	Task	Force	on	Climate-related	Financial	Disclosures	(TCFD)	Report:	Citi’s Approach to Climate Change and Net Zero. 	ESG Across  Our Businesson	ESG	goals	and	targets.	Together,	these	businesses	contribute	to	our	$1	trillion	sustainable	finance	commitment.		ESG Principles  and GuidelinesIn	response	to	the	increasing	need	for	clients	to	see	how	we	are	addressing	ESG	—	and	in	step	with	global	best	practices	—	we	have	aligned	our	reporting	with	the	frameworks	and	guidance	of	the	Global	Reporting	Initiative	and	UN	Guiding	Principles	Reporting	Framework.	We	are	also	using	three	relevant	sector	standards	from	the	Sustainability	Accounting	Standards	Board,	and	we’re	addressing	the	Principles	for	Responsible	Banking.	We	also	include	examples	of	our	work	that	align	with	the	UN	SDGs	and	the	UN	Global	Compact.	In	addition,	we	recently	released	our	2021	TCFD	Report,	which	further	illustrates	how	climate-related	risks	and	opportunities	are	central	to	our	business.Our	ESG	focus	is	essential	to	our	firm-wide	business	strategy,	and	many	of	our	business	units	have	expanded	their	capacity	and	capabilities	to	serve	the	growing	ESG-related	needs	of	our	clients.	Across	the	firm,	our	business	units	are	prepared	to	support	and	work	with	our	clients	through	sustainable	finance,	providing	a	variety	of	products	and	services	with	environmental	and/or	social	themes.	We	have	ESG	specialists	in	Banking,	Capital	Markets	and	Advisory;	Global	Markets;	Treasury	and	Trade	Solutions;	and	Citi	Global	Wealth.	We	have	expanded	our	global	Social	Finance	specialist	group	and	formed	new	teams	to	engage	with	clients	
1.	Financed	emissions	are	the	GHG	emissions	generated	by	the	operations	and	entities	that	financial	institutions	lend	money	to	or	invest	in.	ESG	Governance	at	Citi
Good governance is a fundamental principle at Citi, and we work to ensure that we are at the leading edge of best practices. We strive to maintain the highest standards of ethical conduct — reporting with accuracy and transparency and complying with the laws, rules and regulations that govern Citi’s businesses. Corporate GovernanceOur	governance	structures,	policies	and	processes	serve	employee,	client	and	community	needs;	promote	a	culture	of	accountability	and	ethical	conduct	across	our	firm;	and	support	our	commitment	to	address	global	challenges	through	our	core	business.	• Personnel	and	Compensation• Risk	Management	In	addition,	the	Board	formed	the	Transformation	Oversight	Committee,	an	ad	hoc	committee	to	provide	oversight	of	management’s	remediation	of	the	issues	identified	in	the	consent	orders	with	the	Federal	Reserve	Board	and	Office	of	the	Comptroller	of	the	Currency.See	our	website	for	more	information	about	Citi’s	corporate	governance,	including	our	Board	committee	charters.	See	our	2021	TCFD	Report	for	details	on	our	governance	for	climate	change	specifically.	ESG Governance The	NGPAC	oversees	our	ESG	activities.	This	committee’s	responsibilities	include	reviewing	our	policies	and	programs	for	sustainability,	climate	change,	human	rights,	diversity	and	other	material	ESG	issues,	as	well	as	advising	on	engagement	with	external	stakeholders.	For	more	information	on	the	roles	and	responsibilities	of	this	committee,	see	the	Nomination,	Governance	and	Public	Affairs	Committee	charter.	In	July	2021,	we	formed	a	new	Global	ESG	Council	to	provide	a	senior	management	forum	for	oversight	of	our	ESG	commitments	and	ambition.	The	formation	of	the	Council	highlights	our	commitment	to	ESG	matters,	including	our	climate-related	strategies,	at	the	highest	level	of	our	organization.	Chaired	by	our	CEO,	the	Council	meets	on	a	near-monthly	basis	and	includes	members	of	the	Executive	Management	Team	as	well	as	internal	Citi’s	Board	of	Directors	plays	an	important	role	in	providing	oversight	of	our	efforts	to	ensure	responsible	business	practices.	For	example,	the	Personnel	and	Compensation	Committee	reviews	all	compensation	programs,	including	incentive	compensation,	so	that	they	do	not,	among	other	things,	encourage	imprudent	risk	taking.	The	Nomination,	Governance	and	Public	Affairs	Committee	(NGPAC)	oversees	Citi’s	global	ESG	activities	and	performance.	Our	Ethics,	Conduct	and	Culture	Committee	reflects	our	commitment	to	promote	a	strong	culture	of	ethical	conduct.	The	Risk	Management	Committee	also	provides	oversight	of	climate	risk.Standing	committees	of	our	Board	include:	• Audit	• Ethics,	Conduct	and	Culture	• Executive	• Nomination,	Governance	and		Public	Affairs	
subject	matter	experts.	Steering	groups,	including	the	Climate	Risk	Steering	Group,	the	Net	Zero	Task	Force	and	Global	Sustainability	Steering	Committee,	continue	to	operate,	and	the	leads	of	those	steering	groups	are	members	of	and	provide	reports	to	the	Global	ESG	Council.	Learn	more	in	our	2021	TCFD	Report.	Sustainability and  Climate ChangeCiti’s	Board	of	Directors	and	senior	management	continue	to	expand	the	governance	of	climate	risk	and	integrate	climate	considerations	into	their	priorities.	In	2021,	in	addition	to	the	announcement	of	our	net	zero	commitment	and	the	creation	of	our	new	Global	ESG	Council,	we	accomplished	the	following:• Grew	our	dedicated	Climate	Risk	team	with	additional	expertise	in	credit	risk,	scenario	analysis,	stress	testing	and	regulatory	engagement• Rolled	out	our	first	training	module	on	climate	risk• Created	the	Natural	Resources	&	Clean	Energy	Transition	team	to	combine	our	Energy,	Power	and	Chemicals	businesses	in	order	to	assist	our	clients	across	these	sectors	as	they	transition• Established	our	Net	Zero	Task	Force,	a	cross-functional	group	to	support	the	development	and	launch	of	our	net	zero	plan.	The	Task	Force	is	led	by	our	Chief	Sustainability	Officer	and	includes	leaders	from	diverse	business	units	such	as	Independent	Risk	Management;	Banking,	Capital	Markets,	and	Advisory;	Global	Markets;	Personal	Banking	&	Wealth	Management;	as	well	as	Global	Public	Affairs,	Enterprise	Operations	&	Technology,	Legal	and	Finance.	The	Board	and	senior	management	have	also	increased	the	frequency	and	depth	of	conversations	regarding	climate	matters.		Citi’s	Board	has	ultimate	oversight	of	Citi’s	approaches	to	considering,	evaluating	and	integrating	climate-related	risks	and	opportunities	throughout	the	organization.	The	Board	receives	reports	from	key	personnel	on	Citi’s	progress	and	key	issues	on	a	periodic	basis.	In	addition	to	reporting	to	the	full	Board,	the	NGPAC	provides	oversight	of	sustainability	activities	and	performance	generally	and	the	firm’s	climate	change	efforts	specifically,	and	the	Risk	Management	Committee	(RMC)	provides	oversight	of	climate	change	risk.		The	NGPAC	receives	periodic	updates	from	Citi’s	Chief	Sustainability	Officer	(CSO)	and	the	head	of	Community	Investing	and	Development.	The	NGPAC	also	reviews	Citi’s	governance	and	significant	policies	and	programs	for	sustainability	and	climate	change	issues	and	advises	management	on	our	engagement	with	investors	and	external	stakeholders	on	these	topics.	For	more	information	on	the	roles	and	responsibilities	of	the	NGPAC,	please	see	our	NGPAC	Charter.	The	RMC	provides	oversight	of	Citi’s	Risk	Management	function	and	reviews	Citi’s	risk	policies	and	frameworks.	For	more	information	on	the	roles	and	responsibilities	of	this	committee,	please	see	our	RMC	Charter.	In	2020	into	2021,	the	NGPAC	reviewed	and	discussed	investor	and	market	developments	related	to	net	zero,	including	a	shareholder	proposal	pertaining	to	net	zero,	and	considerations	for	Citi	as	it	deliberated	on	the	implications	of	a	potential	net	zero	commitment.	These	discussions	continued	with	the	full	Board	throughout	2021.	During	2021,	the	full	Board	participated	in	a	climate	education	session	facilitated	by	the	Head	of	Climate	Risk,	the	CSO	and	the	Head	of	Corporate	Banking.	The	full	Board	received	reports	from	the	CSO	regarding	sustainability	activities	and	performance,	including	those	related	to	climate	change	and	Citi’s	net	zero	plan,	and	the	RMC	received	reports	from	the	Head	of	Climate	Risk	regarding	emerging	bank	regulatory	trends	on	climate	risk	and	Citi’s	approach	to	meeting	them.	Members	of	the	Board	also	participated	in	investor	calls	on	a	variety	of	governance,	climate	risk	and	environmental	and	social	matters.Senior	managers	from	Global	Public	Affairs,	Risk,	Finance,	Legal,	Operations	&	Technology	and	various	business	units	from	our	Institutional	Clients	Group	also	contribute	expertise	to	address	the	challenges	presented	by	climate	change.	Learn	more	in	the	Climate	Risk	section	and	in	our	2021	TCFD	Report.Community InvestingCiti	Community	Investing	and	Development	(CID)	is	an	integrated	team	that	works	across	Citi’s	businesses	and	functions	to	catalyze	positive	social	impact	in	communities	around	the	world.		CID	comprises	the	following	teams:• Citi	Impact	Fund	invests	in	“double	bottom	line”	companies	that	are	addressing	societal	challenges,	including	workforce	development,	sustainability,	physical	and	social	infrastructure,	and	financial	inclusion.	• Citi	Social	Finance	works	across	Citi	businesses	globally	to	catalyze	scalable	business	platforms	and	client	solutions	that	enable	the	bank,	our	clients	and	our	partners	to	expand	financial	inclusion,	accelerate	access	to	basic	services,	boost	job	creation	and	scale	social	infrastructure	development	in	emerging	markets.	• U.S.	Business	Partnerships	leads	Citi’s	relationships	with	national	civil	rights	and	consumer	protection	organizations	to	gain	insights	into	issues	affecting	low-	and	moderate-income	communities	and	communities	of	color,	and		catalyze	product	and	service	innovations	that	help	expand	financial	access	and	close	the	racial	wealth	gap.	• The	U.S.	Community	Relations	team,	which	includes	Citi	Volunteers,	catalyzes	social	impact	by	engaging	and	partnering	with	local	community	leaders	and	organizations	across	the	country.	The	team	connects	Citi’s	people,	expertise,	resources,	products	and	services	to	help	expand	equitable	opportunities	for	all.		The	Citi	Foundation	is	a	separate	legal	entity	funded	by	Citi	to	organize	flagship	community	programming	in	three	areas:	youth	economic	opportunities,	financial	inclusion	and	community	solutions.	Underlying	our	approach	is	the	notion	that	complex	societal	challenges	require	multifaceted	solutions.	We	strive	to	share	our	expertise	with,	and	learn	from,	our	partners	and	stakeholders	about	ways	we	can	enhance	impact.	This	approach	contributes	directly	to	the	UN	Sustainable	Development	Goal	SDG 17,	which	seeks	to	strengthen the means of implementation and revitalize the global partnership for sustainable development.	In	particular,	Citi’s	efforts	contribute	to	target	17.3,	which	seeks	to	mobilize additional financial resources for developing countries from multiple sources,	including	the	private	sector,	to	ensure	that	sufficient	financing	is	available	to	achieve	the	SDGs.	 SDG Goal 17: Partnerships for the Goals 	Learn	more	about	this	team’s	efforts	in	the	Equitable	and	Resilient	Communities	section.	Talent and DEICiti’s	Chief	Diversity,	Equity	and	Inclusion	(DEI)	Officer	and	Global	Head	of	Talent	oversees	our	efforts	to	promote	diversity,	equity	and	inclusion	in	the	workplace.	Reporting	to	the	Global	Head	of	Human	Resources,	the	Chief	DEI	Officer	and	Global	Head	of	Talent	works	in	partnership	with	senior	management,	particularly	members	of	the	Executive	Management	Team,	who	co-chair	our	Affinity	groups.	Our	talent	and	DEI	efforts	are	governed	by	the	Citi	Board	of	Directors.	Ethics and Business PracticesEthics	and	responsible	business	practices	are	among	the	most	material	ESG	issues	for	Citi	and	our	stakeholders.	The	Ethics,	Conduct	and	Culture	Committee	of	the	Board	oversees	management’s	efforts	to	foster	a	culture	of	ethics	within	the	company	and	receives	regular	reports	from	senior	management	on	the	progress	of	those	efforts.	To	learn	more	about	the	responsibilities	of	the	committee,	download	the	Ethics,	Conduct	and	Culture	Committee	Charter.	The	Ethics	and	Culture	section	of	this	report	also	provides	more	information	about	efforts	to	encourage	a	culture	of	ethics	at	Citi.	Among	its	responsibilities,	the	Board’s	Risk	Management	Committee	reviews	Citi’s	risk	appetite	framework,	including	reputational	risk	appetite,	and	reviews	and	approves	key	risk	policies,	including	those	focused	on	environmental	and	social	risk.	RemunerationThe	Personnel	and	Compensation	Committee	of	the	Board	holds	senior	executives	responsible,	and	in	turn	senior	executives	hold	their	team	members	responsible,	for	managing	our	sustainability	and	other	ESG-related	efforts	through	incentive	compensation	decisions.	Citi’s	incentive	compensation	program	is	discretionary,	not	formulaic.	Management	of	sustainability	efforts	is	taken	into	account	in	the	program	in	two	ways.	First,	senior	executives	are	held	accountable	for	business	performance	through	specific	metrics	designated	on	a	position-by-position	basis.	Progress	on	our	$1	trillion	sustainable	finance	commitment	and	milestones	for	our	net	zero	plan	are	incorporated	into	the	executive	scorecards	of	our	CEO,	the	CEO	of	Citi’s	Institutional	Clients	Group	and	our	Head	of	Global	Public	Affairs.	Second,	climate	change	strategy	and	risk	management	performance	goals	are	incorporated	into	annual	goals	and	performance	review	processes	for	a	number	of	our	senior	managers	and	their	teams	who	are	responsible	for	developing	and	implementing	our	approach	to	climate	change.	These	managers	include	the	Chief	Sustainability	Officer,	Head	of	Environmental	and	Social	Risk	Management	(ESRM),	Head	of	Climate	Risk	and	the	Head	of	Construction	and	Sustainability,	whose	team	is	responsible	for	our	environmental	footprint	goals.	Corporate	performance	against	scorecard	metrics	and	individual	performance	against	annual	goals	are	two	factors,	among	others,	that	are	taken	into	account	in	determining	incentive	compensation.	Diversity,	equity	and	inclusion,	including	representation	of	women	and	U.S.	Black	colleagues	at	the	Assistant	Vice	President	to	Managing	Director	levels,	continue	to	be	included	in	scorecards	for	our	senior	executives.	Citi	also	incorporates	shareholder	and	stakeholder	input	on	executive	pay	into	our	Compensation	Philosophy.Our	Material	ESG	Issues:		Citi	in	a	Global	Context	In 2020, we conducted a materiality assessment to identify our most relevant (or “material”) reporting topics from an ESG perspective — which is a broader standard than that used in our financial disclosures. These topics are incorporated in the material issues table on the next page. Based	on	internal	stakeholder	interviews	and	external	research,	the	ESG	topics	identified,	which	we	refer	to	as	“material	ESG	issues”	throughout	this	report,	inform	which	issues	we	report	on,	which	issues	we	consider	raising	to	our	Board	of	Directors,	and	how	we	establish	our	ESG	priorities.	When	taken	as	a	set,	the	issues	that	surfaced	in	the	ESG	materiality	analysis	indicate	an	increase	in	stakeholder	expectations,	in	particular	with	regard	to	issues	connected	to	climate	change	and	social	justice.	The	pandemic	also	placed	increased	emphasis	on	employee	health	and	well-being.	Most	of	the	material	ESG	issues	outlined	on	the	following	pages	are	not	new	to	Citi	nor	to	our	stakeholders.	What	is	new,	however,	is	the	magnitude	and	complexity	of	the	changes	required	to	rise	to	these	challenges.	For	example,	there	is	wide	recognition	that	climate	change	is	happening	faster	and	with	more	impact	than	previously	realized;	in	parallel,	society	is	reacting	to	unacceptable	levels	of	social	inequity.	This	assessment	mirrors	—	and	informs	—	our	increased	strategic	efforts	on	these	issues.	It	has	also	driven	our	increased	reporting	on	these	material	topics.
Material ESG Topics*Material ESG Topics*  	  	  	             Key StakeholdersClients and CustomersCommunities Employees	Suppliers and NGOsShareholdersGovernment  & RegulatorsEnvironmentalBiodiversityClimate ChangeEnvironmental JusticeOperational FootprintProducts and Services with Environmental or Social BenefitsSocialCommunity InvestmentCOVID-19Employee Health and Well-beingFinancial InclusionHuman RightsRacial Equity/Racial JusticeTalent Attraction, Retention and Development Workforce Diversity, Inclusion and Equal OpportunityGovernanceBusiness EthicsBusiness Model ResilienceData Security/ Financial Product SafetyESG GovernanceeInnovation and DigitizationPublic Policy and Regulation ReformStakeholder EngagementSystemic Risk ManagementTransparency and Trust*	These	are	the	topics	identified	during	the	materiality	assessment	we	conducted	in	2020.			Material Topics	Definitions/Relevance to CitiBiodiversityOur role in preventing the decline in the number, genetic variability and variety of species essential to global and bioregional ecosystem resilience through our financingBusiness EthicsFollowing our policies, including compliance with laws, anti-corruption and bribery, anti-competitive behavior, paying taxes and transparent political engagementBusiness Model ResilienceCreating, developing and deploying a business model that can meet significant challenges such as natural disasters, health pandemics and global climate changeClimate ChangeReducing our own contribution to climate change while financing and facilitating projects that accelerate the transition to a low-carbon economyCommunity InvestmentEnabling greater cohesion with community stakeholders through public-private partnerships, monetary or in-kind donations, volunteer time or employee fundraising/match schemesCOVID-19Adjusting our operations and long-term strategy to allow us to respond effectively to current and future global health crisesData Security/Financial Product SafetyExecuting the policies, procedures and programs designed to safeguard the privacy of information shared by employees, customers and clientsEmployee Health and Well-beingCreating workspaces that promote employee wellness, and engaging employees in our effort to maintain a culture of safety, sustainability and wellnessEnvironmental JusticeEnacting environmental policies and practices that ensure the fair treatment and involvement of people of all races, national origins and incomeESG GovernanceAligning with stakeholder interests while protecting the environment, advancing social causes and conducting ourselves responsiblyFinancial InclusionEngaging with community banks and low-income stakeholders, and orienting the company’s place in the market to serve underserved communitiesHuman RightsRespecting the basic rights and freedoms of clients, customers, employees, suppliers and Indigenous communities in all our banking activitiesInnovation and DigitizationProblem-solving with clients, partnering with experts and fostering an environment that values  experimentation and technological advancementsOperational FootprintReducing direct impacts by managing energy use, water consumption, recycling, waste and green building designProducts and Services with Environmental or Social BenefitsProviding products and services that drive more equity in society and that protect the environmentPublic Policy and Regulation ReformAdvocating for public policies that support the interests of our company, clients and employees in the countries and regions where we operateRacial Equity/Racial JusticeImplementing policies and programs that promote equal opportunity and treatment for people of all racesStakeholder EngagementActively exchanging input, insights, expertise and perspectives with a wide array of stakeholders as we pursue our sustainability objectivesSystemic Risk ManagementNavigating an evolving risk landscape to make responsible decisions and serve the long-term interests of our clients and the communities in which they operateTalent Attraction, Retention  and DevelopmentAdopting an approach to recruiting, hiring, developing and retaining employees to create positive working conditions so that our employees can thriveTransparency and TrustProtecting the confidentiality of our clients’ information while disclosing information to stakeholders that demonstrates our accountability and credibilityWorkforce Diversity, Inclusion  and Equal OpportunityEnhancing our efforts to promote equal opportunities for all people, and supporting a culture of diversity, equity and inclusion in the workplace
Citi	and	the	Sustainable		Development	GoalsOur sustainable finance commitment of $1 trillion by 2030 aligns with the ambitious agenda of the UN SDGs by furthering the acceleration to a sustainable, low-carbon economy that supports the environmental, social and economic needs of society. As	the	world’s	most	global	bank,	Citi	has	a	role	to	play	in	mobilizing	capital	to	advance	progress	toward	the	goals.	Citi	is	part	of	the	Global	Investors	for	Sustainable	Development	(GISD)	Alliance,	which	includes	30	of	the	world’s	largest	investors	committed	to	accelerating	the	financing	of	the	SDGs.	The	30	members				have	committed	to	increase	our	collective	efforts	to	align	our	businesses	with	the	goals	and	to	remove	barriers	to	finance.	Since	2010,	Citi	has	also	been	a	member	of	the	UN	Global	Compact	(UNGC),	a	global	corporate	sustainability	initiative	to	align	companies’	strategies	and	operations	with	principles	on	human	rights,	labor,	environment	and	anti-corruption,	and	take	actions	that	advance	societal	goals.	We	report	on	our	progress	to	implement	the	10	UNGC	principles.			
    These 17 interrelated Sustainable Development Goals represent an ambitious agenda to achieve a sustainable future by 2030. Some examples of our work to advance specific SDGs can be found throughout this report.Stakeholder	Engagement	at	Citi	
As a signatory to the Business Roundtable’s Statement on the Purpose of a Corporation, Citi is committed to ongoing and extensive engagement with our stakeholders. Stakeholder                      How We Engage GroupExamples from 2021Clients and Customers• Meetings to share Citi’s ESG performance and to understand our clients’ approaches to climate change as well as managing environmental and social risks• Social media, including our Customer Service Twitter handle (@AskCiti)• Customer satisfaction survey• Citi Blog• Hosted a feedback session for stakeholders including clients, investors and NGOs to provide commentary on our TCFD disclosures and our approach toward setting net zero targets and measuring our baseline emissions. Learn more in the Climate Risk & Net Zero section• Worked with clients on sustainable finance transactions• Engaged with clients to discuss our approach to environmental, social and climate risk management and disclosure• Participated in a number of materiality exercises for clients’ ESG reportingEmployees• Company intranet, email, mail and meetings• Voice of the Employee surveys• Affinity Networks and Green Champions• Online training• Performance reviews• Citi Blog• Nearly 196,000 staff completed Financial Crimes compliance training, including on anti-money laundering, sanctions and antibribery topics • Rolled out a new Climate Risk training for employees in Risk functions • Featured stories on Citi’s intranet and in blog posts from Citi senior executives, employees and partners, highlighting our progress on ESG priorities • Our Global Sustainability Network consists of employees from across Citi whose work directly relates to sustainability and ESG, to promote knowledge sharing and alignment on related activities • Our Champions groups within our Banking, Capital Markets and Advisory; Global Markets; and Treasury and Trade Solutions businesses are comprised of employee volunteers. The Champions have quarterly global calls and monthly regional calls to share business updates and best practices for sustainable finance, net zero transition and market developments.Suppliers• Meetings, calls, conferences and workshops• Corporate Responsibility Questionnaire to help assess management of ESG issues, including environmental sustainability and modern slavery• Hosted multiple events to create opportunities to engage with diverse suppliers and help to build their capacity, including sustainable business practices  We	subscribe	to	a	broad	stakeholder	capitalism	approach,	believing	that	we	are	best	able	to	create	business	value	when	we	serve	the	interests	of	a	wide	array	of	stakeholders,	including	our	shareholders.	We	made	a	deliberate	effort	to	continue	stakeholder	engagement	in	a	pandemic	environment.To	fulfill	this	approach,	we	regularly	review	our	stakeholder	partnerships	across	a	range	of	functions,	including	Public	Affairs,	Investor	Relations,	Human	Resources	and	Corporate	Governance,	as	well	as	Sustainability,	Government	Affairs	and	other	teams	in	Public	Affairs.	The	table	below	includes	examples	of	our	recent	stakeholder	engagement	efforts.	AMERICA’S MOST JUST COMPANIES In recognition of our ESG performance, Citi was named among the Top 15 companies in JUST Capital’s 2022 rankings.
Stakeholder 	How We Engage	Examples from 2021GroupCommunities and Nongovernmental Organizations (NGOs)• Specialized websites, including our  Communities and Sustainability websites• Collaboration with community organizations and NGOs on issues relevant to their organizations and our business• Dialogue sessions with community advocates and leaders, civil rights and consumer protection organizations• Employee volunteering events• Our Head of Community Investing and Development chairs Living Cities, a collaborative of the largest philanthropic foundations in the United States dedicated to closing racial wealth gaps• Our Chief Sustainability Officer joined the board of the GOOD Institute, a social impact alliance• Thousands of employees participated in Citi’s annual Global Community Day Reimagined 2021, with more than 61,000 volunteer engagements across 81 countries and territories• Citi Foundation provides grants and works with local and national community organizations• The President of Citi Foundation serves on the Board of Directors of the Council on Foundations, a community of diverse philanthropic organizations advocating for progressShareholders• Group calls and meetings (quarterly earnings calls, investor conferences and Citi-hosted group meetings) • One-on-one meetings to discuss  financial performance and ESG issues • Communications through our Investor  Relations and Corporate Governance teams • Engaged in person and virtually with more than 20 individual investor groups as part of our annual ESG investor roadshow, focused on climate change and diversity—our fourth year of dedicated ESG engagement Government and Regulators• Meetings, conference calls, lobbying activities, industry associations, public policy forums, press conferences, conferences and convenings• Membership on government councils and committees• Engaged with trade associations, such as the United States Chamber of Commerce, the Business Roundtable, and financial industry associations to help build the case for climate policy and supportive regulation• Member of the CEO Climate Dialogue, a cross-industry effort committed to advancing climate action and durable federal climate policy in the United States• Led the workstream to revitalize minority depository institutions (MDIs) and promote fair and equal access to financial products and services as part of the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency’s Project REAChOther Financial Institutions• Working groups• Joint projects • Industry groups, roundtables, workshops and events• Member of the Glasgow Financial Alliance for Net Zero (GFANZ) Principals Group and the Net Zero Banking Alliance (NZBA) Steering Group• Member of United Nations Environment Programme Finance Initiative’s (UNEP FI) Global Steering Committee and the Institute for International Finance’s Sustainable Finance Working Group• Joined the Corporate Call to Action: Coalition for Equity & Opportunity launched by the Connecticut Office of the Treasurer and the Ford Foundation• Led a working group focused on assessing best practices for developing effective operational level grievance mechanisms and enabling effective remedy for adverse human right impacts in project-related finance• Joined the UNEP FI’s Taskforce on Nature-related Financial Disclosures Forum
In This Section	20	Our	$1	Trillion	CommitmentOur	$1	Trillion	CommitmentWe have committed $1 trillion to sustainable finance by 2030, a commitment that spans our business offerings and exemplifies how environmental and social finance are integrated across our businesses. The ambitious $1 trillion commitment will support innovation and collective action toward addressing the most significant global challenges that are outlined in the Paris Agreement and the UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). Announced	in	April	2021,	the	$1	trillion	commitment	extended	our	previous	environmental	finance	goal	from	$250	billion	by	2025	to	$500	billion	by	2030.	Through	this	commitment,	we	will	finance	and	facilitate	a	wide	array	of	climate	solutions,	such	as	renewable	energy,	clean	technology,	water	conservation	and	sustainable	transportation.	We	have	also	committed	$500	billion	toward	activities	in	social	finance,	which	includes	important	investments	in	education,	affordable	housing	and	basic	infrastructure,	healthcare,	economic	inclusion	and	food	security.	Together,	these	$500	billion	targets	for	environmental	and	social	finance	make	up	our	$1	trillion	commitment,	which	aims	to	further	accelerate	the	transition	to	a	sustainable,	low-carbon	economy	that	supports	society’s	environmental,	social	and	economic	needs.	
We	believe	that	setting	ambitious	goals	helps	to	drive	innovation	and	accelerate	progress.	Reaching	$1	trillion	will	require	the	development	of	innovative	financing	solutions.	We	will	continue	to	focus	on	helping	clients	across	all	sectors,	no	matter	where	they	are	in	their	own	sustainability	journeys,	to	support	their	strategic	goals	and	enable	the	development	and	integration	of	sustainable	business	practices.Over	recent	years,	we	have	seen	the	development	of	financial	products	that	were	relatively	new,	or	even	nonexistent,	when	we	set	our	very	first	$50	billion	climate	finance	goal	in	2007.	Thematic	bonds,	sustainable	supply	chain	finance	and	sustainability-linked	bonds	and	loans	that	are	tied	to	ESG	performance	are	contributing	to	sustainable	finance,	and	we	expect	to	see	further	innovations	in	the	coming	years.Tracking ProgressEach	transaction	we	finance	or	facilitate	must	meet	at	least	one	of	eight	criteria	for	environmental	finance	or	one	of	seven	criteria	for	social	finance	to	be	counted	toward	the	overall	$1	trillion	commitment.	These	criteria	were	informed	by	external	standards	and	may	therefore	be	subject	to	changes	as	industry	guidelines	are	further	developed.		Credit	for	each	eligible	transaction	is	counted	only	once	toward	the	$1	trillion	commitment,	even	if	the	transaction	meets	multiple	criteria.	Transactions	that	meet	both	environmental	and	social	criteria	are	evenly	split	between	the	$500	Billion	Environmental	Finance	Goal	and	the	$500	Billion	Social	Finance	Goal	—	without	double	counting.	Because	of	the	interconnected	nature	of	sustainable	finance,	we	are	already	seeing	an	increasing	number	of	transactions	with	both	environmental	and	social	benefits.	We	track	our	sustainable	finance	activities	using	third-party	financial	league	table	credit,	where	applicable.	The	industry	league	tables	track	public	financial	activities	and	rank	financial	institutions	based	on	their	role	(i.e.	lead	arranger,	bookrunner,	etc.)	in	each	transaction.	For	financial	products	for	which	there	are	no	league	tables,	we	count	the	amount	that	reflects	Citi’s	financial	involvement	in	the	deal.Beyond	counting	the	financial	credit,	we	also	calculate	the	estimated	environmental	and	social	impacts	associated	with	a	subset	of	activities	where	feasible,	such	as	avoided	greenhouse	gas	emissions,	renewable	energy	capacity	added,	jobs	supported	and	people	impacted.	We	take	a	conservative	approach	to	the	estimation	of	impacts	from	the	activities	we	finance	and	facilitate	—	including	only	deal	activity	for	which	reasonable	methodologies	and	data	sources	are	available,	and	excluding	deals	for	which	we	have	limited	transparency	and	details.	We	estimate	that	since	2020,	approximately	3.9	million	metric	tons	(mt)	of	greenhouse	gas	emissions	have	been	avoided	as	a	result	of	our	renewable	energy,	green	affordable	housing	and	energy	efficiency	financing	activities.	Additionally,	we	estimate	that	our	financing	activities	supported	approximately	1.8	million	jobs,	affected		26	million	people	globally	and	contributed	to	approximately	$9.5	billion	in	U.S.	GDP.	We	consider	impact	measurement	an	area	of	ongoing	education	and	improvement,	and	we	will	continue	to	challenge	ourselves	in	this	area.	Sustainable Finance  in ActionThe	global	market	for	sustainable	finance	has	been	growing	rapidly	over	the	last	few	years	in	response	to	the	climate	emergency	and	COVID-19.	Investors	and	companies	alike	recognize	the	pivotal	role	that	the	financial	services	sector	will	play	in	facilitating	a	socially	responsible	economic	recovery	that	also	accelerates	the	transition	to	a	more	sustainable,	low-carbon	economy.		The	volume	of	sustainable	debt	issuances,	for	example,	broke	records	in	2021,	surpassing	$1.6	trillion	—	more	than	double	the	$762	billion	of	sustainable	
1. Bloomberg	NEF	(BNEF),	1H	2022	Sustainable	Finance	Market	Outlook.2. https://www.refinitiv.com/perspectives/market-insights/sustainable-finance-continues-surge-in-2021/.
debt	issuances	in	2020,	which	itself	had	set	records.1	The	sustainable	mergers	and	acquisitions	deal	activity	reached		$197	billion	in	2021,	which	was	a	60%	increase	from	2020	activity.2Growth	also	continues	to	be	seen	in	the	markets	for	sustainability-linked	financing,	one	of	the	fastest-growing	innovations	in	sustainable	finance.	Sustainability-linked	instruments	are	general	corporate	purpose	transactions	that	use	key	performance	indicators	(KPIs)	and	sustainability	targets	to	measure	a	company’s	progress,	which	result	in	a	reduced	financing	rate	if	the	target	is	met	or	a	penalty	if	the	company	fails	to	meet	the	target.	With	momentum	gained	in	recent	years,	the	growth	of	sustainability-linked	financing	extended	to	the	global	leveraged	finance	markets	in	2021;2	sustainability-linked	transaction	volumes	increased	significantly	across	leveraged	loan	and	high-yield	bond	issuances,	highlighting	the	popularity	of	tying	sustainability	performance	to	cost	of	financing.	This	innovation	is	also	expected	to	grow	in	the	derivative	markets,	with	sustainability-linked	derivatives.	Acknowledging	this	momentum	in	the	market,	we	count	sustainability-linked	instruments	toward	Citi’s	sustainable	finance	goal	when	they	incorporate	sustainability	key	performance	indicators	and	targets	that	are	aligned	with	at	least	one	of	the	goal	criteria.The	growth	of	sustainable	capital	markets	has	also	been	driven	by	corporations,	sovereigns	and	supranational	institutions	focused	on	achieving	their	sustainability	commitments,	contributing	to	the	SDGs	and	aligning	with	the	goals	of	the	Paris	Agreement.		Many	of	our	business	units	across	the	bank	contribute	to	our	$1	trillion	commitment.	There	are	global	industry	specialist	teams	that	focus	on	different	sectors	and	industries,	such	as	the	recently	formed	Natural	Resources	&	Clean	Energy	Transition	team,	which	engages	with	our	clients	to	support	their	low-carbon	transition	efforts,	as	well	as	the	Citi	Social	Finance	team,	which	partners	with	business	units	across	Citi	to	help	drive	innovative	efforts	on	social	finance	activities	in	emerging	markets.	In	many	instances,	the	deals	have	integrated	and	interrelated	environmental	and	social	elements	and	impacts.	For	additional	information	on	new	teams	we	created	or	restructured	over	the	last	few	years	to	engage	with	clients	on	their	sustainability	and	transition	journeys,	see	the	Sustainable	Progress	section.The	following	are	just	some	examples	of	innovative	environmental	and	social	finance	transactions	from	2021	that	will	be	counted	toward	the	overall	$1	trillion	commitment.	
INCENTIVIZING SUPPLY CHAINS: McCORMICK & COMPANY Sustainable AgricultureIn 2021, Citi partnered with McCormick & Company, a global leader in flavor, and the International Finance Corporation (IFC) to provide McCormick’s suppliers with financial incentives linked to improvements in measures of social and environmental sustainability. McCormick’s supply chain spans over 3,000 agricultural products sourced from more than 85 countries.Under the initiative, suppliers can qualify for discounted rates on short-term working capital financing when they achieve sustainability standards accepted by McCormick. These standards include performance on labor conditions, health and safety practices, crop management, environmental impact, farmer resilience and women’s empowerment. The partnership included an advisory component in Vietnam, where IFC is helping McCormick build a more sustainable, traceable, certified and quality-compliant pepper supply chain through capacity development and the empowerment of women farmers.  2.	https://www.refinitiv.com/perspectives/market-insights/sustainable-finance-continues-surge-in-2021/.EXPANDING ACCESS TO RELIABLE ENERGY IN KENYA Renewable Energy and Affordable Basic InfrastructureOff-grid solar home systems are a vital way to expand access to reliable energy.  Citi was the sole coordinator on a $75 million transaction to expand access to off-grid solar energy in Kenya. The financing will support Greenlight Planet’s ambitions to reach an additional 10 million households in low-income, off-grid communities over  the next five years. Greenlight Planet Kenya is a group company of Greenlight Planet Inc., a leading designer, distributor and financier of rooftop solar home systems for off-grid and weak-grid homes. Through its network of 200 branches and 8,000 field agents, Greenlight sells its Sun King-branded solar energy systems directly to its off-grid residential clients and provides “pay-as-you-go” financing to facilitate their purchase. To date, the company’s Sun King products have saved customers more than  $4 billion cumulatively, which would otherwise be used to purchase CO2-emitting  kerosene lanterns and to charge mobile phones.  LINKING LOANS TO SUSTAINABILITY METRICS Diversity & EquityThe investment firm BlackRock has been a vocal leader in encouraging companies to set and meet environmental and social sustainability goals. In 2021, BlackRock amended its $4.4 billion revolving credit agreement to incorporate certain  sustainability-linked metrics.Citi acted as joint lead arranger and co-sustainability structuring agent for the 5-year sustainability-linked loan that ties BlackRock’s borrowing costs to its ability to achieve certain targets for increased representation of women in leadership and higher representation of Black and Latinx employees in its U.S. workforce, as well as increasing sustainable assets under management. Pursuant to the terms of the credit agreement, BlackRock’s applicable borrowing costs are subject to upward or downward adjustments on an annual basis if BlackRock achieves, or fails to achieve, certain specified targets. The facility reinforces BlackRock’s commitment and accountability to achieving certain sustainability goals by integrating a component of financial alignment through its liquidity management strategy. EXPANDING ACCESS TO HEALTHCARE IN SUB-SAHARAN AFRICA HealthcaremPharma is working to expand access to healthcare across low-income communities in sub-Saharan Africa. By optimizing supply chains and increasing efficiencies, mPharma is able to bring high-quality, affordable medicines to communities most in need — the so-called “last mile” of distribution for pharmaceuticals and vaccines. mPharma also provides financing solutions for mom-and-pop pharmacies, clinics and patients in underserved areas such as Ghana, Nigeria, Zambia and Kenya. Thanks to a line of credit from Citi under Scaling Enterprise, a partnership with the U.S. DFC and the Ford Foundation, mPharma will be able to serve more than 2 million patients in the countries where it operates. Health clinics that operate with mPharma report a decrease of up to 25% in medical-related complications. 	 	EMPOWERING WOMEN ENTREPRENEURS IN MEXICO Economic Inclusion and Diversity & EquityWomen represent one-third of entrepreneurs in Mexico, yet they typically have few opportunities to access financial investments for their businesses. In 2021, Citi partnered with the U.S. International Development Finance Corporation (DFC) and Japan International Cooperation Agency (JICA) to provide $70 million to Banco Compartamos, the largest microfinance institution in Mexico. Compartamos, which translates to “let’s share” in Spanish, is using the funding to support and empower more than 135,000 small businesses, approximately 90% of them women-owned. A portion of the loans is dedicated to the less developed regions of the country, including Chiapas, Oaxaca, Guerrero and Puebla. Learn more in this video.  SUPPORTING COVID-19 RESILIENCE THROUGH UNICEF HealthcareThe global pandemic has exacerbated poverty rates and global inequality, affecting millions of children worldwide. The World Bank and the United Nations Children’s Fund (UNICEF) were looking for new ways to accelerate funding to meet the increasingly urgent needs for their joint pandemic relief programs. Citi acted as sole structure and arranger for a first-of-its kind $100 million bond transaction from the World Bank’s International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, which allowed UNICEF to access capital markets funding to support its private sector fundraising activities. The bond gave institutional and high net worth investors an opportunity to support UNICEF’s work with children, including COVID-19 resilience programs around the world. The cash flows on the bond are linked to future donations to UNICEF.The bond proceeds will support two programs: $50 million will be used by the World Bank to finance its sustainable development programs, including projects targeting the health and socioeconomic impacts of COVID-19; the other $50 million will be allocated to UNICEF to expand programs in 18 countries, targeting future funding of up to $450 million.DEVELOPING MORE SUSTAINABLE RAIL LINES Sustainable TransportationThe development of a 25-kilometer monorail line is one of the largest construction projects in Panama since the expansion of the Panama Canal. Citi acted as sole global coordinator and mandated lead arranger for $2 billion in green loans for the Panama Metro project on behalf of a consortium of Korean companies led by Hyundai Engineering & Construction.The elevated train line will have initial capacity to transport 18,000 passengers per hour in each direction, with an ultimate goal of more than 30,000 passengers per hour in each direction. The monorail will incorporate Hitachi’s B-CHOP system, which harnesses the train’s regenerative energy to substantially reduce energy consumption while the train is in braking mode. The system is expected to cut back 20,000 tons of carbon dioxide emissions annually while providing energy for future use. FINANCING RENEWABLE ENERGY WHILE INCREASING DIVERSITY Renewable Energy and Diversity & EquityIn November, Citi provided AES’ Clean Energy business, a leading renewables  development platform in the United States, with financing to fund the construction  and operation of the Skipjack Solar Project outside Richmond, Virginia. The project  is expected to provide 225 megawatts-DC (175 megawatts-AC) of renewable energy  capacity;  once online, the project will sell 100% of its solar energy output under a  14-year, fixed-price agreement to one of the largest power generator companies in  the U.S.The transaction also included a milestone: Citi’s first execution of a sustainability- linked derivative for a construction project — a KPI-linked interest rate swap to  support the financing of the project. Under the terms, AES commits to achieving  key performance indicators linked to increasing gender diversity measured by  employees who self-identify as female or nonbinary employees and increasing new  hire employees who self-identify as members of an underrepresented group. Citi acted as coordinating lead arranger, lender, and swap syndication arranger on  this transaction, providing a comprehensive financing package for AES, a company  that is focused on accelerating the future of energy, together.STRUCTURING A GREEN HYBRID BOND Clean TechnologyCiti helped German chemicals company Evonik Industries, one of the world leaders in specialty chemicals, issue a €500 million green hybrid bond in 2021 — acting as sole green structuring advisor, joint structuring agent, joint global coordinator and joint bookrunner on the transaction.The corporate hybrid bond structure can be attractive to issuers, particularly in Europe, that are looking for a stronger credit profile or financial flexibility. The green issuance followed the publication of Evonik’s Green Finance Framework, which integrates sustainability into the company’s financial strategy. Under the framework, proceeds from green financing instruments may be used for eligible projects in the areas of eco-efficient products, energy efficiency and renewable energy. Proceeds of this green hybrid bond issuance will primarily be used to finance investments in Evonik’s Next Generation Solutions — products and solutions  with sustainability benefits that Evonik expects to grow significantly in the  coming years. 



In This Section	33	Financing	the	Low-Carbon	Transition	37	Climate	Risk	and	Net	Zero	50	Sustainable	Operations
The	climate	crisis	has	created	not	just	an	opportunity	to	lead	—	but	an	opportunity	to	partner:	working	with	our	clients	to	decarbonize	their	businesses	as	part	of	our	journey	to	net	zero.The	science	is	clear,	as	is	the	need	to	move	urgently	toward	a	low-carbon	economy.	The	financial	sector	has	a	critical	role	to	play	in	supporting	other	industries	to	reduce	their	environmental	impacts	and	transition	their	business	models	in	line	with	what	is	needed	to	keep	global	warming	to	1.5°C.Our	Sustainable	Progress	Strategy	builds	on	our	decades-long	track	record	in	sustainability	and	environmental	finance.	To	drive	the	transition	to	a	low-carbon	economy,	we	are	drawing	on	our	expertise,	expanding	our	business	unit	capabilities	and	deepening	our	engagement	with	the	carbon-intensive	sectors	that	are	of	highest	priority	for	transformation.		The	strategy,	which	is	integrated	into	our	Environmental	and	Social	Policy	Framework,	focuses	on	three	areas:	financing	the	low-carbon	transition,	deepening	climate	risk	assessment	and	disclosure,	and	reducing	the	environmental	impacts	of	our	own	operations.	The	environmental	finance	transactions	that	count	toward	our	$1	trillion	commitment	to	sustainable	finance,	which	also	includes	a	commitment	to	social	finance,	illustrate	how	Citi	is	contributing	to	the	low-carbon	transition.	One	year	after	setting	our	Sustainable	Progress	Strategy,	we	took	an	important	next	step	on	the	path	toward	a	low-carbon	future,	pledging	to	achieve	net	zero	greenhouse	gas	(GHG)	emissions	for	our	financing	(by	2050)	and	for	our	operations	(by	2030).			

Financing	the	Low-Carbon	Transition
One of the core elements of our Sustainable Progress Strategy is our commitment to finance and facilitate activities that accelerate the transition to a low-carbon economy. We doubled our previous commitment of $250 billion by 2025 and set an ambitious $1 trillion sustainable finance commitment by 2030 — half for environmental finance and half  for social finance. But	it’s	not	just	about	financing	and	facilitating	transactions.	Working	collaboratively	with	our	clients	in	decarbonizing	and	helping	them	in	their	transitions	is	a	central	focus	of	our	net	zero	plan.	We	believe	systemic	collaboration	is	essential	for	the	global	economy	to	reach	net	zero	emissions.	We	are	already	engaging	with	numerous	clients	with	respect	to	their	climate	exposure	profile.	We	intend	to	deepen	our	engagement	with	them	to	understand	their	transition	plans	in	greater	detail	as	those	plans	evolve	and	help	them	in	their	strategies	to	realize	opportunities	inherent	in	transitioning	to	a	low-carbon	world.	Our	business	groups	are	focused	on	helping	clients	in	all	sectors,	no	matter	where	they	are	in	their	own	sustainability	journeys.	We	offer	customized	products	and	services	to	support	clients	in	their	transition	to	more	sustainable	business	models	and	practices	that	will	advance	progress	toward	a	low-carbon	future.Within	Banking, Capital Markets and Advisory (BCMA),	sustainability	and	ESG	is	being	integrated	into	our	businesses	and	client	engagements.	We	engage	with	C-suite	executives,	boards	of	directors	and	treasury	teams	on	strategic	financing	using	a	sustainability	lens,	providing	insights	about	industry	transformations,	trends	and	sustainability	risks	and	opportunities.	In	early	2021,	we	created	the	Natural	Resources	&	Clean	Energy	Transition	(NRCET)	team	to	drive	client	engagement	efforts	in	the	Energy,	Power	and	Chemicals	sectors.	This	team	unites	seasoned	corporate	and	investment	bankers	with	deep	knowledge	of	these	sectors	under	a	single	umbrella	to	assist	our	clients	with	the	net	Transforming Our Business to Support a Low-Carbon EconomyClimate	change	has	become	a	C-suite	issue	for	clients	in	all	sectors	of	the	global	economy,	in	terms	of	growth	opportunities	and	risk	management,	and	ESG	considerations	are	increasingly	part	of	our	business	conversations.	To	support	client	needs,	we	have	expanded	our	client	engagement	offerings	across	our	business	to	offer	strategic	sustainability	and	ESG	services	and	solutions.
zero	transition.	Our Sustainability	and	Corporate	Transitions	(SCT)	team,	founded	in	2020,	also	engages	with	clients	at	the	C-suite	and	senior	levels	across	sectors	to	support	the	transition	of	their	business	models	to	a	sustainable	and	low-carbon	future,	helping	them	identify	their	ESG	challenges	and	opportunities	to	shape	their	strategy.	In	2021,	Citi	served	as	the	exclusive	financial	advisor	to	South	Korean	conglomerate	SK	Holdings	in	a	transaction	noted	as	the	largest	investment	ever	in	the	hydrogen	fuel	cell	space.	The	$1.6	billion	deal	gave	SK	Group	a	9.9%	stake	in	Plug	Power	Inc.,	a	leading	provider	of	hydrogen	fuel	cell	and	green	hydrogen	generation	systems	in	North	America.	The	two	companies	entered	into	a	strategic	partnership	to	provide	hydrogen	fuel	cell	systems,	hydrogen	fueling	stations	and	electrolyzers	to	the	Korean	and	broader	Asian	markets	in	order	to	accelerate	hydrogen	as	an	alternative	clean	energy	source	throughout	Asia.South	Korea	is	one	of	the	most	important	and	developed	markets	for	hydrogen.	The	government	has	set	a	roadmap	with	ambitious	goals	to	build	a	hydrogen-based	economy	by	2040.	Also	in	BCMA,	our	Sustainable	Debt	Capital	Markets	(Sustainable	DCM)	team	has	technical	expertise	on	green,	social	and	sustainability	bonds	as	well	as	sustainability-linked	bonds	(SLB),	and	works	within	debt	capital	markets	and	with	industry	bankers	to	originate	and	structure	issuances	for	these	types	of	bonds	on	behalf	of	clients	around	the	world.	The	Sustainable	DCM	team	also	advises	Citi	Treasury	on	Citi’s	own	sustainable	debt	issuance	programs.The	Sustainable	DCM	team	has	helped	numerous	clients	globally	structure	innovative	sustainability-linked	bonds	(SLB)	tied	to	sustainability	goals.	Such	bonds	are	an	example	of	KPI-linked	instruments	that	commit	the	issuer	or	borrower	to	specific	sustainability	objectives,	such	as	greenhouse	gas	(GHG)	emissions	reduction	or	other	key	performance	indicators	(KPIs).	Citi	acted	as	SLB	Structuring	Advisor	and	Active	Bookrunner	on	Johnson	Controls	International	(JCI)’s	inaugural	$500	million	SLB	in	September	2021.	As	part	of	this	transaction,	JCI	committed	to	(i)	reduce	absolute	Scope	1	and	2	GHG	emissions	by	35%	and	(ii)	reduce	absolute	Scope	3	GHG	emissions	from	the	use	of	sold	products	by	5%,	all	by	2025	from	a	2017	baseline,	supporting	JCI’s	long-term	net	zero	emissions	by	2040	target.	Failure	to	achieve	these	targets	will	result	in	a	25	basis	point	coupon	step-up.	JCI	was	also	the	first	S&P	500	company	to	publish	an	integrated	sustainable	finance	framework	encompassing	both	use-of-proceeds	bonds	(green,	social	or	sustainability)	and	sustainability-linked	bonds,	allowing	JCI	to	issue	any/all	sustainable	financing	instruments.	In	another	first,	Citi	client	Tesco	became	the	first	UK	corporate	and	the	first	retailer	globally	to	launch	a	SLB	tied	to	ambitious	GHG	emissions	reduction	targets	in	January	2021.	As	the	largest	retailer	in	the	United	Kingdom,	Tesco	PLC	has	the	ability	to	make	a	significant	impact	on	the	path	to	a	low-carbon	future.	Tesco	is	aiming	to	become	carbon	neutral	across	its	own	operations	by	2035	and	net	zero	across	the value	chain	by	2050.	Citi	acted	as	structuring	advisor	and	active	bookrunner	on	the	€750	million	SLB.	As	part	of	this	bond	issuance,	Tesco	agreed	to	cut	its	Scope	1	and	2	GHG	emissions	by	60%	by	2025,	relative	to	a	2015	baseline.	Failure	to	achieve	this	target	in	Tesco’s	2025	financial	year	will	result	in	a	25	basis	point	step-up	in	the	coupon	in	2027,	2028	and	2029,	reinforcing	Tesco’s	climate	commitments	to	both	external	and	internal	stakeholders.	Also	in	2021,	Citi	served	as	sole	structuring	advisor	and	lead	left	bookrunner	for	a	$2.8	billion	green	bond	offering	for	Ardagh	Metal	Packaging,	a	global	leader	in	sustainable	aluminum	packaging	solutions.	The	offering	was	the	largest-ever	high-yield	green	bond	completed	to	date.	Ardagh	has	published	a	Green	Financing	Framework	that	provides	details	on	the	eligible	use	of	proceeds.		In	our	Global Markets	business,	we	recently	established	a	dedicated	ESG	team	to	support	our	client	engagement	through	the	integration	of	strategic	sustainability	and	ESG	services	and	solutions.	Global	Markets	provides	clients	with	ESG	thought	leadership	about	trends,	market	evolution,	themes,	integration	and	data-driven	analysis.	We	aim	to	lead	our	clients	through	the	rapidly	evolving	landscape	of	ESG	by	partnering	with	clients	to	develop	new	solutions	across	fixed-income,	securitized	products,	multi-asset	strategies	and	sustainable	real	assets,	in	addition	to	our	full	range	of	solutions	in	equities.	Using	our	strengths	in	primary	issuance	and	secondary	trading,	we	support	the	development	of	deep,	liquid	and	efficient	sustainable	markets.	Citi	is	also	able	to	address	origination	and	financing	gaps	for	clean	energy	and	energy-efficiency	project	developers	and	investors	by	working	across	banking,	advisory,	origination	and	markets	teams	for	optimal	client	solutions.Our	Clean	Energy	Finance	group,	for	example,	has	expertise	in	providing	full-service	financing	solutions	for	a	broad	spectrum	of	renewable	energy	technologies,	serving	as	a	one-stop	shop	for	our	clients,	as	well	as	financing	to	help	clients	implement	energy	efficiency	projects.		Citi Global Wealth,	through	its	Investing	with	Purpose	approach,	offers	managed	opportunities,	alternative	investments	and	tailored	exposure	to	capital	markets	to	help	clients	pursue	their	sustainable	investment	objectives.	As	clients	have	been	increasingly	concerned	with	the	impact	their	investments	may	have	on	society	and	the	environment,	the	direction	of	sustainable	investing	is	evolving	past	socially	responsible	investing,	and	Citi	Global	Wealth	has	updated	its	offerings	to	meet	this	growing	area	of	client	demand.	The	Investing	with	Purpose	platform	provides	opportunities	for	private	clients	to	invest	alongside	Citi’s	institutional	clients.	Multiple	Citi	Global	Wealth	clients	have	participated	in	differentiated	capital	markets	solutions	supporting	the	global	green	energy	transition,	an	investment	thesis	reaffirmed	by	our	investment	strategy	team.	As	the	world	goes	greener,	the	opportunities	for	Citi	Global	Wealth	investors	are	likely	to	multiply	over	the	coming	years,	enabling	us	to	build	entire	core	and	opportunistic	allocations	that	reflect	sustainable	principles	—	a	process	we	might	describe	as	“greening	your	portfolio.”	Our	Treasury and Trade Solutions (TTS)	business	provides	financing	and	cash	management	solutions	to	clients	across	the	globe.		We	have	established	a	global,	cross-functional	ESG	working	group	to	develop	holistic	sustainable	working	capital,	investment	and	cash	management	solutions.	These	include,	but	are	not	limited	to,	Sustainable	Supply	Chain	Finance,	Sustainable	Trade	and	Working	Capital	Loans	and	Sustainable	Deposits,	as	well	as	Money	Market	Funds	with	ESG	principles	embedded.	Through	our	Export	Agency Finance	business,	we	enhance	our	clients’	ability	to	access	capital	in	higher	risk	markets	by	delivering	financial	solutions	in	partnership	with	Development	Finance	Intuitions,	Export	Credit	Agencies	and	Multilateral	Agencies	designed	to	improve	risk	capacity.	Read	about	the	Panama	Metro	project	and	the	Banco	Compartamos	project.Climate and Biodiversity We are continuing to learn about the complex dynamics between climate and biodiversity. These two topics are deeply interconnected, and there is an increasing awareness that climate change, along with other human-caused stresses on natural systems, is contributing to biodiversity loss and ongoing extinction events.* “Natural capital” is a way to conceptualize the various resources and services that are provided by resilient ecosystems. This concept helps to inform the increasing focus on biodiversity, its impact on climate and the importance of disclosure. A recent Citi Global Perspectives & Solutions (GPS) report: Biodiversity: The Ecosystem at the Heart of Business explores why businesses and investors should care about biodiversity loss. The report explains that businesses rely on nature for their products and ecosystem services such as clean air, water, pollination and carbon sequestration. At the same time, their operations create direct and indirect impacts on nature that can, and often do, negatively affect their business. By failing to understand the dependencies and impacts on nature and biodiversity, companies open themselves up to biodiversity risk that could affect the profitability of their businesses. This in turn poses risks to their investors.There is a growing realization that we are losing biodiversity at an alarming rate. This requires urgent action that is complementary to climate action. Global wildlife populations have fallen an average of 68% in just 46 years,** and human activities threaten 1 million animal and plant species with extinction.*** At the same time, there is a financing gap of $598 billion to $824 billion per year† for broad action on biodiversity, suggesting significant business opportunities. Additionally, naturepositive solutions can create $10 trillion in business opportunities and 395 million new jobs by 2030.††  These solutions could deliver up to 37% of CO2 emission reductions by 2030.†††To support our understanding and action on biodiversity, we are also a member of the Taskforce on Nature-related Financial Disclosures (TNFD) Forum, a global and multidisciplinary consultative network of institutional supporters who share the vision and mission of the TNFD. (To learn more, see the Risk Management section). *	See	Anthony	D.	Barnosky	et	al.,	Has the Earth’s Sixth Mass Extinction ...,	471	NATURE	51,	51	(2011);	Gerardo Ceballos	et	al.,	Vertebrates on the Brink ...,	117	(24)	PNAS	13596	(2020);	Belinda	Reyers	&	Elizabeth	R.	Selig, Global Targets that Reveal ...,	4	NATURE	ECOLOGY	&	EVOLUTION	1011	(2020).**	WWF,	Living	Planet	Report	2020:	Bending	the	Curve	of	Biodiversity	Loss	(2020),	R.E.A.	Almond,	M.	Grooten and	T.	Petersen	(eds.)	WWF,	Gland,	Switzerland.***	IPBES,	Global	Assessment	Report	on	Biodiversity	and	Ecosystem	Services	of	the	Intergovernmental Science	Policy	Platform	on	Biodiversity	and	Ecosystem	Services	(May	2019),	E.S.	Brondizio	et	al.	(eds.),	IPBES, Bonn,	Germany,	ISBN:	978-3-947851-	20-1.†	A.	Deutz	et	al.,	Financing	Nature:	Closing	the	Global	Biodiversity	Financing	Gap	(September	2020),	The Paulson	Institute,	The	Nature	Conservancy	and	the	Cornell	Atkinson	Center	for	Sustainability.††	World	Economic	Forum,	New	Nature	Economy	Report	II:	The	Future	of	Nature	and	Business	(July	2020). †††	B.W.	Griscom	et	al.,	“Natural	Climate	Solutions”	(October	2017),	Proceedings	of	the	National	Academy	of Sciences	of	the	United	States	of	America,	114	(44),	pages	11645-11650.In	November,	we	launched	our	first	Sustainable	Supply	Chain	Finance	(SSCF)	program	in	Asia	Pacific	with	the	aim	of	supporting	clients	as	they	advance	their	ESG	priorities,	improve	the	resilience	of	their	supply	chains	and	manage	working	capital	needs.	The	program	was	implemented	for	Henkel,	the	German	chemical	and	consumer	goods	company,	and	is	targeted	at	existing	or	new	suppliers	that	demonstrate	strong	or	improving	sustainability	performance.	Qualifying	suppliers	can	access	Citi’s	supply	chain	financing	at	preferential	rates	on	a	tiered	basis,	with	rates	improving	as	a	supplier’s	sustainability	score	improves.	Henkel,	with	the	support	of	a	global	leading	sustainability	assessment	agency,	will	assess	the	sustainability	performance	of	suppliers.TTS’s	Liquidity	Management	Services	support	treasuries’	goals	with	various	cash	investment	products	that	have	incorporated	sustainability	principles.	Clients	can	invest	their	excess	cash	with	Money	Market	Funds	that	have	incorporated	ESG	principles.	In	December,	we	expanded	our	innovative	Green	Minimum	Maturity	Time	Deposit,	a	sustainable	cash	investment	product	that	gives	clients	the	ability	to	invest	their	short-term	liquidity	in	environmentally	friendly	projects.	Investments	in	Citi’s	green	deposits	or	new	Green	Minimum	Time	Deposits	will	be	allocated	to	finance	or	refinance	a	portfolio	of	green	projects	that	meet	the	rigorous	environmental	finance	eligibility	criteria	defined	in	our	Green	Bond	Framework.	The	new	product	also	gives	clients	greater	flexibility	to	extend	the	investment	period.
Climate		Risk	and	Net	Zero	When we consider the risks related to climate change, we apply a double materiality perspective, looking at both the impact of climate change on our business and our business’s impact on the climate. Citi’s	business	is	exposed	to	numerous	climate	risks	given	our	role	as	one	of	the	largest	financiers	of	the	global	economy,	including	carbon-intensive	industries.	This	means	that	as	we	address	and	mitigate	risks,	we	must	take	into	account	how	we	will	protect	and	strengthen	our	business	while	ensuring	that	our	clients	become	part	of	the	solutions	that	are	needed	to	transition	to	a	low-carbon	economy.	We	prioritize	regular	reporting	about	our	progress	and	approach	in	relation	to	climate	risk,	as	we	believe	transparently	sharing	our	journey	is	an	important	contribution	we	can	make	both	to	the	broader	industry	and	to	our	clients.	Citi	has	disclosed	climate-related	metrics	and	targets	for	our	environmental	finance	activities	and	our	operations	for	well	over	a	decade,	and	we	released	our	first	Climate	Change	Position	Statement	in	2007.	Since	then,	our	commitment	to	this	issue	has	only	grown,	as	evidenced	by	our	strategic	approach,	alignment	with	global	standards	and	the	continued	evolution	of	our	Environmental	and	Social	Risk	Management	(ESRM)	Policy	in	response	to	the	changing	risk	landscape.Our TCFD Report: Citi’s Approach to Climate Change and Net ZeroTo find more detailed climate-related  disclosures, see our 2021 Task Force on  Climate-related Financial Disclosures Report: Citi’s Approach to Climate Change and Net Zero. The report discloses our work to implement the TCFD recommendations across the four pillars of Governance, Strategy, Risk Management, and Metrics and Targets and includes our initial net zero plan for our Energy and Power loan portfolios.First	established	in	2003,	our	ESRM	Policy	applies	to	all	Citi	entities	globally	and	provides	a	framework	for	how	we	identify,	mitigate	and	manage	the	potential	risk	to	Citi	associated	with	the	environmental	and	social	risks	of	our	clients’	activities.	It	guides	our	financing	decisions	for	companies	and	projects	within	environmentally	sensitive	and/or	high-carbon	sectors.	It	also	provides	us	with	opportunities	to	advise	our	clients	on	climate-related	risks.	To	learn	more	about	our	ESRM	Policy	and	related	due	diligence,	see	the	Environmental	and	Social	Risk	Management	section.In	addition	to	establishing	internal	policies	and	practices,	we	also	align	with	external	standards	to	strengthen	our	processes,	reporting	and	engagement.	We	have	supported	the	recommendations	of	the	Task	Force	on	Climate-related	Financial	Disclosures	(TCFD)	since	they	were	released	in	2017.	Our	objective	is	to	understand	the	potential	financial	risks	from	climate	change	to	Citi,	our	clients	and	communities;	how	Citi	and	our	clients	may	be	contributing	to	climate	change;	and	how	we	can	help	our	clients	transition	to	a	low-carbon	economy.Find	out	more	about	our	implementation	of	the	TCFD	recommendations	in	our	2021	TCFD	Report.	In	addition,	this	ESG	Report	includes	a	TCFD	index	indicating	where	climate-related	content	in	response	to	TCFD	recommendations	can	be	found	throughout	this	report	and	other	public	documentation.PARTICIPATION IN NET ZERO FRAMEWORKS  Citi is a member of multiple industry groups that enhance our understanding of — and ability to act on — climate-related issues. These groups include the Partnership for Carbon Accounting Financials (PCAF), the Net-Zero Banking Alliance (NZBA) and the Glasgow Financial Alliance for Net Zero (GFANZ). Learn more about these in our 2021 TCFD Report.
Our Net Zero CommitmentIn	2021,	we	announced	our	commitment	to	net	zero	greenhouse	gas	(GHG)	emissions	by	2050,	in	alignment	with	the	objectives	of	the	Paris	Agreement	and	prevailing	climate	science.	Reducing	Scope	3	financed	emissions1	is	widely	recognized	as	the	most	significant	contribution	the	financial	industry	can	have	to	achieving	a	low-carbon	economy.	Our	commitment	will	include	interim	financed	emissions	reduction	targets	for	carbon-intensive	sectors,	as	described	by	the	UN	Environment	Programme	Finance	Initiative	(UNEP	FI)	Guidelines	for	Climate	Target	Setting	for	Banks.	To	date,	we	have	set	2030	emissions	targets	for	our	Energy	and	Power	loan	portfolios.	For	our	own	operations,	we	are	targeting	net	zero	GHG	emissions	by	2030,	which	builds	on	our	environmental	footprint	goals	and	the	100%	renewable	electricity	goal	that	we	achieved	in	2020.	(Learn	more	in	the	Sustainable	Operations	section.)The	approach	and	activities	related	to	our	net	zero	commitment	are	distinct	from	our	management	of	climate	risk	for	our	firm.	While	our	net	zero	commitment	is	keenly	focused	on	Citi’s	impacts	on	the	climate	and	reducing	GHG	emissions	to	net	zero	across	our	value	chain,	our	climate	risk	management	efforts	are	focused	on	Citi’s	safety	and	soundness,	and	thus	on	the	integration	of	climate	risk	into	our	risk	management	governance,	processes	and	strategies.	Although	these	two	priorities	differ	in	their	primary	focus,	they	are	related	to	and	reinforce	each	other,	leading	to	mutual	benefits.	As	we	execute	on	our	net	zero	commitment,	the	resulting	reduction	in	financed	emissions	will	help	to	reduce	our	climate	transition	risk.		Citi’s	net	zero	ambition	builds	on	our	commitment	to	the	UNEP	FI	Principles	for	Responsible	Banking,	our	leadership	in	climate	disclosure	in	alignment	with	the	TCFD	and	our	ESRM	Policy	—	specifically	our	Sector	Approaches	related	to	fossil	fuels.	Transparency	and	accountability	are	keys	to	success,	and	we	will	report	annually	on	our	net	zero	progress.	Our	commitment	to	net	zero	is	significant,	given	the	size	and	breadth	of	our	portfolios	and	businesses.	To	achieve	it,	we	must	meet	our	clients	where	they	are	in	their	sustainability	journeys	and	help	accelerate	their	progress	in	this	area.	We	will	work	with	all	our	clients,	including	our	fossil	fuel	clients,	to	develop	credible	plans	that	include	the	responsible	retirement	of	carbon-intensive	assets	as	we	transition	to	net	zero	together.	We	will	prioritize	partnering	with	clients	on	transition	strategies,	and	exiting	client	relationships	is	a	last	resort.	Banks	are	facing	growing	pressure	to	divest	from	fossil	fuels.	In	some	instances,	such	as	thermal	coal	mining,	where	there	is	credit	risk	from	stranded	assets	in	addition	to	climate	risk,	we	have	already	established	a	transparent	time	frame	for	our	transition	expectations.	However,	we	are	cognizant	that	large-scale,	rapid	divestment	could	result	in	an	abrupt	and	disorderly	transition	to	a	low-carbon	economy,	creating	both	economic	and	social	upheaval	on	a	global	scale.	For	example,	certain	carbon-intensive	companies	may	play	critical	roles	in	channeling	the	necessary	capital	expenditures	and	providing	the	raw	materials	to	support	new	climate	technologies	or	may	provide	necessary	baseload	power	for	developing	countries.	An	orderly,	responsible	and	equitable	transition,	which	accounts	for	the	immediate	economic	needs	of	communities	and	workers	as	well	as	environmental	justice	and	broader	economic	development	concerns,	is	essential	to	retaining	political	and	social	support	for	the	shift	to	a	low-carbon	economy.	Under	the	goals	of	our	net	zero	plan,	we	seek	to	balance	these	needs	to	facilitate	this	complex	transition.	Initial Net Zero PlanWe	released	our	initial	net	zero	plans	for	our	Energy	and	Power	loan	portfolios	in	our	2021	TCFD	Report.	The	plans	for	these	portfolios	build	upon	the	calculation	of	our	financed	emissions	and	the	setting	of	interim	2030	emissions	reduction	targets	for	these	sectors.	Our	net	zero	plan	incorporates	a	twofold	approach:	assessment	of	our	clients’	climate	profiles	and	engagement	to	understand	their	transition	opportunities.	Additionally,	we	will	employ	a	number	of	tools,	phased	in	over	time,	to	help	move	these	portfolios	toward	our	2030	targets.	Underlying	the	implementation	of	this	plan	is	Citi’s	continued	effort	to	expand	our	climate-related	resources	and	engage	directly	with	our	clients.
1.	Financed	emissions	are	the	GHG	emissions	generated	by	the	operations	and	entities	that	financial	institutions	lend	money	to	or	invest	in.

While	our	transition	plans	for	each	loan	portfolio	will	be	based	on	a	rigorous	net	zero	methodology,	we	are	still	in	the	early	stages	of	plotting	our	net	zero	journey.	We	expect	to	modify	our	transition	plans	and	targets	as	both	the	availability	and	quality	of	data	improve	and	as	climate	scenarios	are	updated.	We	also	recognize	that	there	will	be	uneven	year-on-year	progress	toward	our	2030	targets,	because	clients	and	sectors	differ	in	their	capacity	to	transition	and	in	the	time	frames	in	which	their	carbon	reduction	investments	will	be	realized.Contents 	ESG at Citi 	Sustainable Finance 	SustainableProgress 	Equitable & Resilient Communities 	Talent & DEI 	Risk Management & Responsible Business 	AppendicesEnergy and Power Baseline Emissions and Interim TargetsDuring	2021,	we	used	the	PCAF	methodology	to	conduct	an	analysis	of	our	Energy	and	Power	portfolios	using	2020	data.	In	alignment	with	PCAF	requirements,	this	analysis	is	based	on	funds	outstanding	(drawn	and	not	yet	repaid)	by	clients	during	the	year	to	provide	a	view	of	financed	emissions	associated	with	our	activities	during	that	year. 2020 ABSOLUTE FINANCED EMISSIONS: OUTSTANDING EXPOSURE (MT CO2E*)ScopePowerEnergyScope 14,261,74717,308,063Scope 2FPO TABLE164,059518,594Scope 3N/A**40,113,950***Total4,425,80657,940,607*	mt	CO2e	=	metric	tons	of	carbon	dioxide	equivalent.**	Omission	of	Scope	3	emissions	for	Power	is	explained	in	the	“Scope	3	Calculation	Methodology”	in	Appendix	A	(page	71)	of	our	2021	TCFD	Report.				***	Scope	3,	Category	11:	Use	of	Sold	Product,	for	extractive	and	refining	sectors.The	PCAF	methodology	is	primarily	focused	on	reporting	financed	emissions	on	an	annual	basis	and	relies	on	data	of	funds	outstanding,	not	the	total	funds	that	a	financial	institution	may	have	committed	to	the	client	in	the	reporting	year.	While	we	intend	to	continue	disclosing	per	the	PCAF	requirements	to	provide	this	annual	view	of	financed	emissions	associated	with	our	activities,	we	are	using	“committed	funds”	data	to	more	holistically	attribute	our	clients’	emissions	for	the	baseline	financed	emissions	figures	in	our	net	zero	plan.	Consequently,	we	undertook	an	additional	analysis	of	our	Energy	and	Power	loan	portfolios	using	total	committed	funds	to	calculate	baseline	emissions	from	2020	and	establish	2030	emission	targets.	The	use	of	committed	funds	in	this	context	provides	a	more	accurate	reflection	of	the	maximum	emissions-generating	activity	that	Citi	has	agreed	to	finance	and	is	therefore	better	suited	for	the	purposes	of	forward-looking	emissions	management	and	target	setting.	This	approach	results	in	discrepancies	between	the	metrics	we	report	for	PCAF	and	for	our	net	zero	targets,	but	we	believe	the	committed	funds	approach	is	better	aligned	with	the	way	we	expect	to	manage	our	net	zero	targets.	2020 ABSOLUTE FINANCED EMISSIONS: COMMITTED EXPOSURE (MT CO2E)ScopePowerEnergyScope 111,464,65433,847,434Scope 2485,7841,434,241Scope 3N/A*108,478,743Total11,950,438143,760,418* Omission	of	Scope	3	emissions	for	Power	is	explained	in	the	“Scope	3	Calculation	Methodology”	in	Appendix	A	(page	71)	of	our	2021	TCFD	Report.				To	reach	net	zero,	we	must	move	from	our	baseline	across	a	decarbonization	pathway	to	our	ultimate	net	zero	target.	Establishing	2030	targets	are	the	first	step	in	that	journey.	The	next	step	is	to	develop	an	implementation	plan	to	achieve	targeted	reductions	in	each	relevant	sector.	We	are	evaluating	a	number	of	strategies	and	tools	to	drive	towards	the	established	goals,	though	they	may	not	all	be	applicable	for	every	sector	or	client.	Some	of	the	emissions	reduction	approaches	and	potential	future	tools	include	client	engagement,	capital	allocation	strategy	and	portfolio	management	tools.	The	table	on	the	following	page	summarizes	our	current	2030	emission	targets	for	Citi’s	Energy	and	Power	portfolios.	These	interim	2030	targets	are	a	key	component	of	our	net	zero	plan	for	emissions	in	our	client	portfolio.	
SectorScenario2020 Baseline2030 TargetsEnergy(Scope 1, 2, 3)Net Zero Emissions by 2050 (NZE 2050)*143.8 million mt CO2e29% reduction from 2020 baseline102.1 million mt CO2ePower**(Scope 1)Sustainable  Development Scenario (SDS 2020)*313.5 kg CO2e/MWh63% reduction in Scope 1 intensity per MWh 115 kg CO2e/MWh**** International	Energy	Agency	scenarios.**	Only	includes	power	generation	clients.	Clients	primarily	in	the	transmission	and	distribution	value	chain	were	excluded.***	The	emissions	intensity	from	the	IEA	SDS	OECD	scenario	is	derived	by	dividing	the	CO2e	emissions	resulting	from	the	Power	sector	with	the	electricity	generation	at	2030.Note:	These	targets	are	based	on	available	data	as	of	September	2021.	Updates	to	improve	data	quality	of	the	baseline	numbers	may	result	in	changes	to	these	targets.
More	information	about	the	analysis	we	conducted	to	establish	these	targets,	including	scenario	selection	and	the	scope	and	boundaries	of	the	targets,	is	available	in	our	2021	TCFD	Report.	In	future	years,	we	will	conduct	further	analysis	to	facilitate	target	setting	for	additional	sectors.	In	2022,	we	plan	to	focus	on	the	Auto	Manufacturing,	Steel,	Thermal	Coal	Mining	and	Commercial	Real	Estate	sectors	for	core	analysis	and	target	setting,	in	alignment	with	the	NZBA	guidelines.	We	will	consider	the	remaining	sectors,	including	Aluminum,	Aviation,	Cement	and	Agricultural	subsectors	in	2023	and	2024.	Citi’s Approach to Managing Climate RiskCiti’s	Risk	Management	function	is	responsible	for	identifying,	measuring,	managing,	controlling	and	reporting	risks	to	the	company.	We	identify	climate	risk	as	an	“emerging	risk”	in	Citi’s	Enterprise	Risk	Management	Framework.	Within	the	framework,	emerging	risks	are	those	that	are	new	or	rapidly	changing,	with	high	growth	potential,	and	are	characterized	by	data	unavailability	or	other	uncertainties.	We	do	not	view	climate	risk	as	a	stand-alone	risk	category	but	as	a	transversal	risk,	capable	of	manifesting	across	each	of	Citi’s	seven	risk	categories	in	our	risk	taxonomy:	Credit,	Market,	Liquidity,	Strategic,	Operational,	Compliance	and	Reputation.	Climate	impacts	may	be	either	physical-	or	transition-related	and	may	vary	depending	on	the	time	horizon.	During	2021,	we	strengthened	our	governance	and	deepened	our	expertise	to	advance	effective	management	of	climate	risks	and	opportunities.	Highlights	include	the	following:	• Formation	of	a	new	Global	ESG	Council,	consisting	of	senior	members	of	management,	with	the	aim	of	providing	enhanced	oversight	of	our	ESG	activities	and	goals	•	Creation	of	the	Natural	Resources	&	Clean	Energy	Transition	team	to	integrate	our	Energy,	Power	and	Chemicals	businesses,	in	order	to	assist	our	clients	across	these	sectors	as	they	transition• Growth	of	our	dedicated	Climate	Risk	team,	with	an	emphasis	on	expertise	in	credit	risk,	scenario	analysis,	stress	testing	and	regulatory	engagement	• Establishment	of	a	Net	Zero	Task	Force	to	support	the	development	and	launch	of	our	net	zero	planRegulatory ComplianceInterest	in	climate	risk	management	from	regulators	continues	to	grow	globally.	We	are	monitoring	and	responding	to	emerging	regulatory	obligations	and	engaging	with	regulators	around	the	world	about	climate	risk	issues,	especially	related	to	risk	management,	strategy	and	scenario	analysis	requirements.	As	we	anticipate	an	increase	in	regulatory	requirements,	voluntary	frameworks	and	mandated	product	classifications,	we	are	strengthening	our	internal	regulatory	teams	with	subject	matter	experts.	We	are	also	improving	our	access	to	relevant,	accurate	data	to	sharpen	our	scenario	analyses	and	building	a	standardized,	global	climate	disclosure	strategy	that	can	monitor	and	manage	requirements	and	provide	consistent	reporting	across	our	operations.	

EMPLOYEE TRAINING IN CLIMATE RISK Climate Risk in Our Maritime Shipping PortfolioThe Poseidon Principles, released in 2019, provide a framework for lenders, lessors and financial guarantors to integrate climate considerations into lending decisions with international shipping clients, to help the sector decarbonize in line with the goals of the International Maritime Organization (IMO). Citi was a founding signatory and also chairs the Steering Committee of the Poseidon Principles Association, the governing body of the Poseidon Principles.As a part of our commitment, we provide yearly disclosures, which are published alongside those of other signatories in an annual report published on the Poseidon Principles website. Our most recent disclosure reflects updated data from the IMO’s Fourth GHG Study, published in 2020, as well as an improved methodology for estimating carbon emissions and carbon intensity for a variety of vessel types and sizes, resulting in a more accurate representation of vessel emissions and the emissions reduction targets needed for the world’s shipping fleet. Our reported alignment score this year (+11.7%) is notably further out of alignment compared with our reported score of last year (+6%). This change in alignment is due to a combination of factors, including the improved accuracy of the new methodology, as well as significant disruptions in shipping related to the COVID-19 pandemic. The disruptions were most notable in the Cruise segment, which saw dramatic decreases in efficiency (and therefore our alignment scores) driven by reduced cruising activity globally. This was however offset by the improvements in the accuracy of the methodology, resulting in an alignment score of +1.1% for the Cargo segment of Citi’s Shipping portfolio only (excluding the Cruise segment). Further changes to the methodology may occur as data and industry practices evolve, and new IMO regulations come into effect.To further advance progress in the maritime shipping industry, we are a member of the Getting to Zero Coalition, which is focused on the development of commercially viable, zero-emission vessels and other needed maritime infrastructure for scalable net zero-carbon energy sources, including production, distribution, storage and bunkering. The coalition was founded by the Global Maritime Forum, Friends of Ocean Action and the World Economic Forum. It has more than 190 member companies and nine knowledge partners and is supported by key intergovernmental organizations and governments.We are working to create a culture of sustainability across our company and raise our colleagues’ literacy related to climate risk. In 2021, we created a new training module that covers key climate risk concepts, including the definition of climate risk, emerging climate risk standards, supervisory expectations, an overview of Citi’s efforts in this area and our initiatives to enhance climate risk management. Our previous climate risk trainings were customized for specific groups of employees to raise awareness about particular climate-related topics. This new module is our first training for climate that allows us to provide consistent instruction for a broader audience and further support the integration of climate risk considerations into our risk management processes.
Reducing Climate  Risk in Our Financing Climate	risk	is	one	of	the	three	pillars	of	our	Sustainable	Progress	Strategy.	When	it	comes	to	analyzing	and	reducing	climate	risk	associated	with	our	clients,	we	have	identified	the	following	three	primary	focus	areas:• Policy	development• Portfolio	analysis	and	measurement•	Engagement Policy DevelopmentOur Commitment to Reduce Financing for Coal Thermal Coal Mining  Our ESRM Policy commitments related to coal mining began in 2009, with our first coal mining Sector Approach. Since that time, we have updated our policy, including updates focused on enhanced due diligence and continued reductions in our credit exposure to the coal mining industry. As of 2020, Citi has established a policy prohibition on projectrelated financing of new thermal coal mines and significant expansions. We have also committed to the following targets to reduce our exposure to companies that derive 25% or more of their revenue from thermal coal mining:• By the end of 2025: Reduce our credit exposure to these companies by 50% from  a 2020 baseline • After 2025: No longer facilitate capital markets transactions or mergers and acquisition advisory and financing for these companies• By the end of 2030: Reduce all remaining exposure to these companies to zeroCredit exposure as  	2020 baseline* 	of Dec. 31, 2021 	$1.091B	$759M (30% reduction from baseline) Coal-Fired Power Generation  Our ESRM Policy commitments related to coal-fired power generation have also been updated over time as the credit and reputation risk related to coal has increased. We have committed to not finance any new coal-fired power plants or expansions of existing plants. Our expectations have increased as we aim to help our clients transition to a future aligned with the Paris Agreement. A comprehensive summary of time-bound milestones for coal-fired power clients through 2040 is available in our Environmental and Social Policy Framework.In 2021, we reviewed our coal-fired power clients’ GHG reporting and low-carbon transition plans, including commitments to retire existing coal plants. Our analysis considered a combination of client disclosures, third-party ESG analysis, CDP disclosures and direct client engagement. Moving forward, this evaluation will be wrapped into our net zero engagement and progress towards our 2030 targets.*	This	figure	has	been	updated	as	one	metallurgical	coal	company	was	erroneously	included	in	the	baseline reported	in	our	2020	ESG	report.As	part	of	our	work	to	integrate	climate	risk	into	Citi’s	risk	policies	and	governance	frameworks,	we	have	updated	our	ESRM	Policy	Sector	Approaches	for	carbonintensive	sectors	to	incorporate	emerging	best	practices.	One	area	where	we	have	made	significant	progress	is	in	our	fossil	fuel	Sector	Approaches	for	thermal	coal	mining	and	the	generation	of	coal-fired	power,	which	predated	our	net	zero	commitment.	See	the	box	on	the	right	for	more	details	on	our	targets	and	policy.Portfolio Analysis  and MeasurementCiti	aims	to	understand	the	transition	and	physical	risks	that	Citi	and	our	clients	are	exposed	to	by	conducting	climate	scenario	analysis,	measuring	the	GHG	emissions	associated	with	our	financing	portfolio	and	evaluating	portfolio	decarbonization	pathways.	During	2021,	we	conducted	an	analysis	of	our	Energy	and	Power	loan	portfolios	to	establish	baseline	emissions	and	establish	interim	2030	emissions	targets	as	we	work	toward	our	net	zero	commitment.	Learn	more	about	this	analysis	and	our	targets	in	the	Energy	and	Power	Baseline	Emissions	and	Interim	Targets	section.	
Risk ExposureDuring	2021,	we	updated	our	climate	risk	heat-mapping	framework	to	refine	our	understanding	of	the	sectors	we	finance	that	are	most	sensitive	to	climate	risk.	The	heat	map	on	the	following	pages	is	based	on	a	qualitative	assessment	of	how	transition	and	physical	climate	risk	drivers	are	expected	to	impact	different	sectors.	The	results	of	this	assessment	will	help	us	to	prioritize	portfolios	when	further	evaluating	risks.		Climate Risk Heat-Mapping Framework:Vulnerability RubricOur	climate	risk	heat	map	(included	on	the	following	pages)	categorizes	sectors	under	one	of	four	vulnerability	scores,	ranging	from	low	to	high.	We	have	established	subscores	using	the	rubric	in	the	following	table	for	various	aspects	of	transition	and	physical	risks.	LOW		VULNERABILITY SCORE		HIGH	1	2	3	4Transition RisksRegulatory No regulatory/policy changes are expected to meaningfully impact the sector financially such as through asset devaluation, increased expenditure (e.g., compliance costs) and/or loss of revenueMinor impact to the sector expected from potential regulatory/policy changes (e.g., building efficiency) resulting in financial impact asset devaluation, increased expenditure (e.g., compliance costs) or loss of revenue; impact only on a subset of the sector, subset of geographies and/or only indirect impactModerate impact to the sector expected from regulatory/policy changes (e.g., carbon taxes) relating to the sector’s carbon intensity; direct impact with noticeable economic implications on the sector through impacted asset valuation, increased expenditure (e.g., compliance costs) and/or revenue lossMajor impact to the sector expected due to expected regulatory/ policy changes relating to the sector’s carbon intensity; significant shift expected in the business model or economics of the sector impacting asset valuation, expenditures (e.g., increased compliance costs) and/or revenueTechnologyOutside of general modernization of technology, no technology shifts are expected for the sectorMinor impact to the sector expected from technology changes (i.e., impact only on a small subset of the sector, or only indirect impact through supply chain) that result in market share lossModerate impact to the sector expected from technology changes, resulting in some shift in the economics of some companies in the sector leading to market share lossMajor impact to the sector expected from technology changes, resulting in substitution of a significant portion of existing companies (i.e., market share loss)StakeholderThere is no expectation of stakeholder composition or preferences changing for the industryMinor stakeholder impact due to expected shift in preferences, with minor financial impact on companies (e.g., revenue, vendor pricing)Moderate stakeholder impact is expected for the sector in terms of stakeholder preferences and composition, with modest financial impact (e.g., revenue, vendor pricing)Major stakeholder impact is expected in terms of both client preferences and composition of stakeholders, resulting in significant financial impact (e.g., revenue loss, vendor pricing)LegalNo increased litigation concerns are expected to impact the industry that would lead to increased financial burden (e.g., legal fees, settlements)Minor litigation concerns are expected to impact the sector, with minor financial consequences (e.g., legal fees, settlements)Moderate litigation concerns are expected to impact the sector, with modest financial impact (e.g., legal fees, settlements)Major litigation is expected to impact the sector, with significant financial impact (e.g., legal fees, settlements)Physical RisksAcute HazardAcute physical hazards have no impact on the dayto-day operations of companies in the sectorSector would experience minor impact from acute physical hazards on operations (e.g., revenue loss due to business disruption), or minor damage to assets (e.g., asset devaluation)Sector would experience moderate and protracted impact from acute physical hazards on operations (e.g., revenue loss due to business disruption), or moderate damage to assets (e.g., asset devaluation)Sector would experience major and protracted impact from acute physical hazards on operations (e.g., revenue loss due to business disruption), or significant damage to assets (e.g., asset devaluation)Chronic HazardChronic physical hazards have no impact on the operations or valuation of assets/ companies in the sectorChronic physical hazards have minor potential impact on the operations (e.g., increased insurance cost) or valuation of assets/companies in the sectorSector would experience moderate and sustained impact on the operations (e.g., increased insurance cost) or valuation of assets/companies in the sectorSector would experience major and irreversible impact on the operations or valuation of assets/ companies in the sectorClimate Risk Heat Map and Credit ExposureA	comprehensive	table	of	our	credit	exposures	is	provided	below,	including	a	breakdown	of	identified	sectors	into	subsectors	and,	for	each,	the	level	of	risk	relating	to	physical	and	transition	climate	risk.	By	looking	at	the	subsector	level,	we	can	further	distinguish	between	the	levels	of	risk	within	an	individual	sector.	It	is	important	to	note	that	these	risks	are	not	expected	to	manifest	in	every	sector	immediately.	For	this	reason,	the	table	on	this	page	and	the	next	should	not	be	interpreted	as	imminent	risks	to	existing	exposures,	but	rather,	exposures	we	are	proactively	identifying	to	focus	on,	where	we	will	work	methodically	in	the	coming	years	to	better	understand,	analyze	and	manage	our	climate	risk	exposures	in	these	sectors.1234LOWHIGH2020Climate Risk*$ in Millions Total $  Exposure% of Total ExposureFunded% of Funded Exposure	Transition 	Physical  	Risk	RiskEnergy & Commodities**49,5246.3%15,0864.4%   Integrated Oil & Gas13,3321.7%2,8440.8%42   Oil & Gas Exploration & Production13,3161.7%4,3801.3%42   Oil & Gas Storage & Transportation7,1690.9%1,8080.5%42   Oil & Gas Refining & Marketing6,9760.9%2,6320.8%42   Oil & Gas Equipment, Services & Drilling4,9140.6%1,0820.3%42   Other   3,8160.5%2,3400.7%42Power26,9163.4%6,3791.9%   Alternative Energy2,0110.3%1,0150.3%12   Electric Utilities6,4300.8%2,3730.7%33   Gas Utilities1,4970.2%5710.2%32   Independent Power Producers & Service Operators2,4490.3%5910.2%33   Multi-Utilities12,1171.5%1,3430.4%33   Water Utilities9860.1%1340.0%23   Other1,4260.2%3530.1%33Transportation81,56710.4%39,41711.4%  Autos53,8746.9%25,3107.3%41      Automobile Manufacturers16,9392.2%6,6901.9%41      Auto Parts & Equipment 10,4761.3%4,2981.2%41      Auto-Related Financing, Leasing & Rentals23,8363.0%12,8113.7%31      Other2,6230.3%1,5110.4%41   Aviation10,2571.3%5,0331.5%33   Shipping & Maritime Logistics9,9791.3%6,7852.0%32   Logistics7,4571.0%2,2890.7%33      Air Freight & Logistics1,1390.1%3290.1%33      Rail1,3950.2%2730.1%12      Trucking7160.1%4270.1%31      Other***4,2080.5%1,2600.4%33Industrials65,6518.4%20,7056.0%   Building Products & Related8,1621.0%2,4530.7%31   Capital Goods42,5645.4%12,6153.7%33   Paper Forest Products & Packaging7,1130.9%3,4161.0%31   Professional Services7,8121.0%2,2200.6%21*	Over	medium	to	long	term.**	In	addition	to	this	exposure,	Citi	has	energy-related	exposure	within	other	sectors	(for	example,	mainly	energy-related	state-owned	entities	within	the	public	sector).	Citi	total exposure	to	these	energy-related	sectors	is	approximately	$5.8	billion,	of	which	approximately	$3.3	billion	consisted	of	direct	outstanding	funded	loans,	as	of	December	31,	2020. ***	Includes	Infrastructure,	Logistics	Not	Assigned	and	Logistics	Suppliers.2020Climate Risk*$ in Millions Total $  Exposure% of Total ExposureFunded% of Funded Exposure	Transition 	Physical  	Risk	RiskMetals & Mining14,6541.9%6,4621.9%   Coal†5920.1%1440.0%44   Steel3,5260.4%2,0170.6%32   Aluminum9610.1%7100.2%32   Stainless Steel1530.0%1160.0%32   Nonferrous & Ferrous Minerals2,4920.3%1,0490.3%32   Other††6,9310.8%2,4270.7%32Chemicals22,3562.8%7,9692.3%32Consumer Retail & Health117,63315.0%43,46712.6%   Agricultural Products6,7230.9%4,2151.2%33   Beverages8,8891.1%3,5661.0%13   Food Products14,3731.8%6,7522.0%32   Tobacco3,1760.4%7170.2%13   Healthcare Equipment & Services35,5044.5%8,6582.5%11   Household & Personal Products9,1671.2%3,6171.1%22   Retail20,5772.6%7,6622.2%21   Hotels, Restaurants & Leisure4,9510.6%1,9970.6%12   Other14,2731.8%6,2831.8%33Real Estate65,3928.3%43,28512.6%   Commercial Real Estate46,2325.9%30,0708.7%23   Residential Real Estate19,1602.4%13,2163.8%23Financial Institutions†††86,25711.0%35,00610.2%32Insurance26,5763.4%1,9250.6%   Life Insurance4,9230.6%6590.2%11   Property & Casualty Insurance13,6881.7%1,1100.3%23   Reinsurance6,3240.8%660.0%23   Other1,6400.2%910.0%23Private BankPublic Sector‡109,39726,88713.9%3.4%75,69313,59922.0%3.9%2233Tech, Media & Telecom82,65710.5%30,8809.0%   Media & Entertainment13,1191.7%4,2791.2%11   Hardware23,5473.0%10,8363.1%22   Software & Services22,2642.8%5,6471.6%11   Telecom21,3412.7%8,6162.5%12   Other2,3860.3%1,5030.4%22Other Industries9,3071.2%4,5451.3%11Total‡‡784,774100.0%344,417100.0%*	Over	medium	to	long	term.†	Based	on	Citi’s	Risk	Industry	Classification,	which	only	captures	companies	that	fully	identify	as	coal	companies	and	excludes	diversified	mining	companies	with	coal	mining.	This differs	from	how	Citi	defines	thermal	coal	mining	companies	under	its	ESRM	Policy	(those	that	derive	>25%	of	revenue	from	thermal	coal	mining),	which	broadens	the	scope	of companies	covered	under	the	ESRM	Policy.††	Includes	Coke,	Diversified	Metals	&	Mining,	Industrial	Minerals,	Energy	Minerals,	Gold,	Metals	&	Mining	Not	Assigned,	Metals	&	Mining	Related,	and	Uranium.†††	Includes	Asset	Managers	and	Funds,	Banks,	Finance	Companies,	Financial	Markets	Infrastructure	and	Securities	Firms.‡	Certain	countries	may	see	high	transition	and	physical	risks	based	on	commodities	exposure	and	geographic	location.‡‡	Sums	may	not	match	FY2020	10-K	due	to	rounding	from	increased	granularity	in	industry	breakdowns.
Engagement Engagement	with	our	stakeholders,	clients	and	industry	experts	helps	us	to	stay	current	in	our	understanding	of	this	critical	and	evolving	area	of	impact,	to	strengthen	our	management	and	analysis	of	climate	risk	in	our	portfolio	and	to	advance	progress	in	this	area	across	industries.During	2021,	we	hosted	a	stakeholder	engagement	session,	facilitated	by	Ceres,	for	clients,	investors	and	nongovernmental	organizations.	Participants	provided	input	on	Citi’s	TCFD	disclosures	and	our	approach	to	setting	net	zero	targets	and	measuring	our	baseline	emissions.	Feedback	from	that	session	has	been	integrated	into	our	2021	TCFD	report	and	will	guide	our	progress	as	we	continue	to	develop	our	net	zero	plan.	See	our	2021	TCFD	Report	for	a	summary	of	key	takeaways	from	the	session.	To	advance	progress,	we	have	worked	with	organizations	such	as	Rocky	Mountain	Institute’s	Center	for	Climate-Aligned	Finance.	The	Center	works	with	financial	institutions	on	identifying	1.5°C-aligned	emissions	reduction	pathways	for	sectoral	portfolio	measurement	and	target-setting	and	developing	credible	institutional	transition	plans.	In	addition,	Citi	contributed	to	the	World	Economic	Forum’s	Financing the Transition to a Net-Zero Future report.	The	report	reflects	input	from	financial	institutions	and	the	public	sector	related	to	mobilizing	investments	in	breakthrough	technologies	that	will	facilitate	a	more	sustainable	future.	Our	Sustainability	&	Corporate	Transitions	team	and	Natural	Resources	&	Clean	Energy	Transition	team	engage	with	our	clients	to	pursue	opportunities	and	support	their	efforts	to	transition	to	net	zero.	Learn	more	in	the	Financing	the	Low-Carbon	Transition	section.		See	the	Stakeholder	Engagement	at	Citi	section	for	additional	examples	of	our	engagement	efforts	in	2021.
Sustainable	OperationsCiti has a history of prioritizing healthy buildings, along with two decades of measuring and reducing our environmental footprint. We are well-positioned to meet the dual challenges of climate change and COVID-19 head on, as we enable sustainable operations and healthy facilities for our customers and employees.Net Zero CommitmentCiti’s	commitment	to	achieve	net	zero	GHG	emissions	by	2050	includes	both	our	financing	and	our	own	operations.	For	our	operations,	we	are	targeting	net	zero	emissions	by	2030.	This	includes	GHG	emissions	related	to	our	owned	and	leased	facilities,	employee	commuting	and	business	travel,	and	emissions	associated	with	our	supply	chain.		During	2021,	we	undertook	a	discovery	and	planning	process	to	develop	a	strategy	for	reaching	this	commitment.	This	included	broad	engagement	with	employees	from	our	Enterprise	Operations	&	Technology	group,	and	analysis	to	help	us	define	the	boundaries	of	the	commitment,	understand	the	potential	challenges,	and	identify	short-,	medium-	and	long-term	priorities	to	help	us	reach	our	goal.	With	the	announcement	of	our	commitment	to	net	zero	GHG	emissions,	we	broadened	our	engagement	with	employees	across	Citi,	including	those	working	in	the	areas	of	real	estate,	technology,	supply	chain,	shared	services,	travel	and	facility	operations.	Our	goal	was	to	increase	understanding	and	capabilities	across	our	organization,	while	also	gaining	greater	insight	into	the	full	scope	of	our	GHG	emissions.	Employees	in	these	groups	helped	evaluate	their	own	processes	to	identify	and	map	GHG	emissions	throughout	Citi.	We	then	engaged	a	third	party	to	help	us	quantify	those	emissions.	This	engagement	has	set	the	stage	for	collaboration	as	we	drive	toward	net	zero	in	our	operations.	As	part	of	our	discovery	process,	we	also	expanded	our	GHG	inventory.	We	have	been	tracking	Scope	1,	Scope	2	and	a	portion	of	Scope	3	GHG	emissions	related	to	our	own	operations	for	many	years.	However,	this	was	the	first	time	we	included	broader	Scope	3	emissions	related	to	our	supply	chain,	which	is	integral	to	grasping	the	total	impact	of	our	operations.	Due	to	limitations	in	data	availability	and	quality,	we	used	spend	data	and	industry	emissions	factors	from	the	US	Environmentally-Extended	Input-Output	Models	as	the	basis	for	our	GHG	inventory.	While	this	approach	has	its	limitations,	the	insights	we	have	gleaned	from	this	analysis	are	nonetheless	helping	us	identify	priority	areas	that	warrant	additional	investigation	and	suppliers	we	can	meaningfully	engage	with	to	create	the	greatest	impact.	As	supplier-specific	data	becomes	available	and	methodologies	improve,	we	will	recalculate	our	supply	chain	emissions.	The	GHG	inventory	is	available	in	our	2021	Task	Force	on	Climate-related	Financial	Disclosures	(TCFD)	report.We	are	keenly	aware	that	a	balanced	approach	will	be	needed	to	drive	emissions	reductions	for	our	operations.	This	might	include	a	reduction	in	our	consumption	of	supplier	goods	and	services,	while	also	engaging	with	suppliers	to	drive	process	improvements	and	innovations.	We	are	also	working	toward	our	2025	operational	footprint	goals	(see	following	page),	which	aim	to	reduce	GHG	emissions	and	energy	consumption	for	our	operations.	In	addition,	we	are	piloting	zero-carbon	building	requirements	for	all	new	Citi	buildings,	targeting	emissions	from	operations	as	well	as	embodied	emissions	in	the	materials	used	to	construct	the	buildings.	See	the	Climate	Risk	and	Net	Zero	section	for	an	overview	of	our	commitment	to	net	zero	GHG	emissions,	including	as	it	relates	to	our	financing.	Operational  Footprint GoalsWe	have	been	measuring	our	environmental	footprint	for	two	decades	and	began	reporting	on	our	direct	operational	impacts	in	2002.	This	report	marks	our	first	disclosure	on	progress	against	our	fourth	generation	of	operational	footprint	goals,	which	we	announced	in	2020	and	aim	to	achieve	by	2025.	These	goals	are	aligned	with	a	pathway	to	limit	global	temperature	rise	to	1.5°C	and	cover	GHG	emissions,	energy	use,	water	consumption,	waste	reduction	and	diversion,	and	sustainable	building	design.	Because	of	the	ongoing	COVID-19	pandemic,	our	facilities	were	not	used	at	full	capacity	in	2021,	and	our	related	resource	consumption,	waste	generation	and	GHG	emissions	were	lower	than	they	otherwise	would	have	been.	We	recognize	that	in	some	cases	these	impacts	were	simply	moved	to	employees’	homes	and	other	non-Citi	facilities.	As	a	result	of	having	fewer	people	using	Citi	buildings,	our	progress	for	2021	indicates	that	we	exceeded	some	of	our	goals	during	the	year.	That	trend	could	briefly	reverse	in	the	coming	years	as	our	employees	continue	to	return	to	the	office,	before	progressing	again	toward	meeting	our	goals.	
In 2021, Citi Tower Hong Kong installed our largest on-site renewable energy system to date. This hybrid system generates energy for water heating and electricity. The system includes 360 solar panels, which we estimate will generate over 85,000 kilowatt-hours annually, avoiding 70 metric tons of CO2 emissions each year. The site also has a small wind turbine.Sustainable Building Principles in ActionWhether	undertaking	new	construction	or	renovating	existing	buildings,	we	prioritize	efficiency	and	sustainability,	to	minimize	the	environmental	impact	of	our	facilities	across	the	globe.	Buildings	are	responsible	for	about	40%	of	global	energy	use	and	approximately	one-third	of	GHG	emissions.2	Since	our	own	operations	consist	largely	of	buildings,	we	have	developed	and	are	piloting	requirements	for	all	new	buildings	to	be	zero	carbon	by	2030,	in	support	of	our	net	zero	commitments.	These	requirements	address	both	operational	and	embodied	carbon	emissions,	inclusive	of	energy	use,	energy	supply,	integration	with	utilities	and	material	use.	With the installation of solar panels for two more locations completed in 2021, we now have six bank branches in Mexico with on-site solar generation. These branches receive from 60% to 80% of their electricity needs from on-site solar power, including the branch pictured at right in Mexico City. The six branches have a total of 348 solar panels and a combined capacity of 115 kilowatts when operating at their peak output. In 2021, these sites produced 64,000 kilowatt-hours of electricity.  Citi	is	currently	renovating	a	facility	in	Gray,	Tennessee,	to	align	with	our	zerocarbon	requirements.	The	plans	for	this	facility	include	features	to	reduce	energy	use	as	much	as	possible	and	to	meet	any	remaining	energy	needs	with	renewable	sources.	Aligning	this	building	with	our	zero-carbon	building	requirements	will	also	benefit	the	well-being	of	those	using	the	building.	For	instance,	a	tight	building	seal	will	improve	air	quality	and	thermal	comfort	for	those	inside	and	will	also	improve	energy	efficiency.	One	of	our	2025	goals	is	to	have	40%	of	our	facilities,	by	floor	area,	LEED,	WELL	or	equivalent	certified.	In	2021,	we	earned	certifications	for	several	sustainable	building	projects	in	pursuit	of	this	goal:	•	Guatemala (LEED Gold):	Reducing	the	environmental	impact	of	the	interior	construction	of	our	offices	in	Guatemala	was	instrumental	in	our	ability	to	achieve	LEED	Gold	for	this	site.	Design	features	include	high-efficiency	fixtures	and	equipment	to	reduce	water	consumption	by	41.5%	and	electrical	2. United Nations Environment	Programme,	“Energy	Efficiency	for	Buildings,”	page	1,	accessed	November	2021.		
WELL Building Health-Safety RatingIn 2021, as a result of our health and safety practices, we received the International WELL Building Health-Safety Rating for all Citi facilities globally, including offices, operations centers, data centers and retail locations. This seal helps assure our employees and customers that our buildings are safe and healthy environments. The seal is awarded to businesses that meet rigorous scientific standards, maintenance protocols and emergency plans to address concerns related to COVID-19 and other infectious diseases now and into the future.  WELL Portfolio ProgramBuilding on the success of the WELL Health-Safety Rating, Citi joined the WELL Portfolio Program — a benchmarking program for measuring and improving organizational health performance across facilities. The WELL Portfolio Program leverages the strategies of the WELL building standard, the leading health-focused building standard. As a participating organization, Citi will receive an annual portfolio score based on our work to support and enhance the health and well-being of employees and customers who work in and visit our buildings every day.•	consumption	by	15.7%.	We	also	reused	77%	of	the	facility’s	furniture	to	reduce	waste,	and	we	were	able	to	effectively	manage	construction-related	waste,	capping	the	volume	sent	to	landfill	at	31.7	kg/m2,	which	is	15%	below	the	industry	standard.		Paraguay (EDGE Advanced):	We	earned	our	first	EDGE	Advanced	Certification	for	our	Agrovet	Offices	in	Paraguay.	The	Excellence	in	Design	for	Greater	Efficiencies	(EDGE)	certification	system	evaluates	buildings	in	three	resource	categories:	energy,	water	and	materials.	We	earned	Advanced	Certification	through	the	use	of	features	that	increase	energy	efficiency	by	63%	(mainly	related	to	the	building’s	heating	and	cooling	•	systems),	increase	water	efficiency	by	20%	through	high-efficiency	accessories	in	restrooms	and	reduce	embodied	energy	of	materials	used	for	interior	spaces	by	89%.China, Taiwan, United States (LEED Volume Program):	We	accomplished	LEED	v2009	certification	for	11	bank	branches	through	the	LEED	Volume	Program	and	achieved	LEED	v4	Gold	for	our	fourth	retail	prototype.	All	new	and	renovated	bank	branches	will	be	LEED	Certified	based	on	this	model.	We	are	also	planning	a	significant	renovation	of	Citi	Tower	in	London,	headquarters	for	our	Europe,	Middle	East	and	Africa	region.	For	this	project,	which	we	expect	to	complete	in	2025,	we	are	prioritizing	3.	EPA	Greenhouse	Gas	Equivalencies	Calculator.20212021sustainable	building	principles	and	employee	well-being	in	alignment	with	LEED,	BREEAM	and	WELL	standards.	By	renovating	the	existing	building,	rather	than	demolishing	it	to	build	a	new	structure,	we	will	avoid	releasing	an	estimated	100,000	metric	tons	of	embodied	carbon,	equivalent	to	21,748	passenger	vehicles	driven	for	one	year.3	We	are	designing	Citi	Tower	London	for	energy	efficiency	from	top	to	bottom,	within	the	constraints	of	an	existing	building,	and	are	factoring	carbon	emissions	into	our	decision-making	process.	The	building	will	feature	rooftop	solar	panels	generating	more	than	52,000	kilowatt-hours	per	year	annually	—	enough	to	power	18	average	UK	homes4	for	one	year.	Efficient	fixtures	will	reduce	water	consumption	by	20%5	and	a	grey	water	
4. Average	electricity	UK	home	2021	resource,	data	from	OFGEM.5. Against LEED baseline.reuse	system	will	help	us	save	an	estimated	29.5	cubic	meters	of	water	each	day,	enough	to	fill	4.3	Olympic	pools	over	the	course	of	a	year.6	During	construction,	we	plan	to	refurbish	and	reuse	materials	on-site	to	reduce	waste	and	embodied	carbon,	and	we	will	work	to	significantly	minimize	waste	sent	to	landfill.	Employee and Customer Well-BeingFor	many	years,	Citi	has	prioritized	the	intersection	of	sustainability	and	employee	well-being.	When	looking	at	how	our	buildings	can	affect	the	well-being	of	our	employees,	we	manage	air	quality	and	acoustics,	as	well	as	providing	ergonomic	furniture,	opportunities	to	stay	active,	healthy	food	options	and	a	work	environment	that	is	both	flexible	and	effective.	As	a	result	of	our	efforts,	we’ve	received	aligned	with	the	Centers	for	Disease	Control	and	Prevention	guidelines.	These	measures	include	improved	ventilation	and	air	treatment	systems;	signage	about	effective	handwashing;	sanitizer	stations;	enhanced	cleaning	measures	to	reduce	exposure	to	pathogens,	allergens	and	harmful	chemicals;	and	rules	related	to	social	distancing	and	masks.	In	addition,	we	have	installed	plexiglass	barriers	in	our	branches	to	provide	increased	protection	for	our	employees	and	customers.	To	further	support	our	colleagues,	we	are	also	providing	employees	with	additional	physical	and	mental	health	resources.Employee EngagementOur	colleagues	contribute	to	our	culture	of	sustainability	through	volunteer	efforts	and	awareness	campaigns.	Despite	the	challenges	a	remote	working	environment	posed	during	2021,	Citi	piloted	an	Earth	Day	initiative	within	its	global	Green	Team	Network	of	18	teams.	This	initiative	encouraged	employees	to	live	more	sustainably	and	complete	tasks	to	save	water,	reduce	waste	and	energy	consumption	and	learn	more	about	climate	change.	WELL	Silver	certification	from	the	International	WELL	Building	Institute™	for	two	facilities,	one	each	in	Hong	Kong	and	India.	Both	facilities	are	going	through	the	WELL	recertification	process,	which	is	required	every	three	years.	We	are	also	working	toward	WELL	certification	for	our	London	headquarters	renovation.	The	WELL	Building	Standard	is	a	system	for	measuring,	certifying	and	monitoring	building	features	that	impact	the	health	and	well-being	of	occupants.	In	recognition	of	how	important	it	is	to	design	buildings	for	employee	well-being,	we	have	included	WELL	certification	as	an	aspect	of	our	sustainable	building	goal	for	2025.The	COVID-19	pandemic	further	emphasized	the	importance	of	employee	well-being	at	our	office	facilities,	in	addition	to	the	well-being	of	our	employees	and	customers	within	our	branches.	With	this	in	mind,	we	have	instituted	initiatives	and	protocols	
6. In	one year,	this equals	10,767.5	cubic	meters.	Olympic	pool	size:	2,500	cubic	meters.	10,767.5/2,500	=	approx.	4.3.
Beyond	Earth	Day,	employees	across	the	company	also	contribute	to	sustainability	initiatives	as	a	part	of	their	regular	work	responsibilities.	For	example,	many	of	our	employees	have	sustainabilityrelated	responsibilities	as	part	of	their	day-to-day	work,	such	as	those	involved	in	our	climate	risk,	environmental	and	social	risk	management	and	low-carbon	transition	efforts.Efficient Travel OptionsDue	to	COVID-19,	employee	commuting	and	business	travel	has	dropped	significantly	since	2019.	For	many	years,	we	have	encouraged	employees	to	use	video	and	web	conferencing	technologies	rather	than	traveling,	whenever	possible.	With	the	onset	of	the	global	pandemic,	we	quickly	transitioned	the	entire	company	to	adopt	use	of	these	platforms	for	their	daily	interactions.	As	our	employees	return	to	the	office,	we	are	relying	on	the	efficiency	efforts	we	had	in	place	before	the	onset	of	COVID-19.	For	instance,	many	of	our	offices	are	centrally	located	near	public	transportation,	which	reduces	the	need	for	employees	to	drive	to	work,	and	we	provide	U.S.based	employees	pretax	dollars	to	cover	the	cost	of	commuting	by	subway,	bus,	train,	ferry	and	vanpool.	We	also	offer	bike	storage	and	bike	racks	at	several	facilities	and	sponsor	bike	share	programs,	known	as	the	Citi	Bike®	Program,	in	New	York	City,	Jersey	City	and	Miami.	At	our	car	park	in	the	Citigroup	Centre	in	London,	we	offer	a	dozen	charging	stations	for	those	driving	electric	vehicles.Due	to	our	global	scale,	we	often	need	to	meet	with	clients,	partners,	teams	and	other	stakeholders	across	the	world.	Now	that	many	colleagues	across	the	firm	have	started	traveling	again,	we	are	working	to	build	awareness	for	how	business	travel	impacts	our	carbon	footprint.	For	example,	when	employees	book	travel	reservations,	they	are	able	to	see	the	emissions	data	related	to	their	air	travel.	We	plan	to	include	emissions	data	for	rail	travel,	hotels	and	rental	cars	in	the	future.		Managing Climate Risk in Our OperationsThe	effects	of	climate	change,	particularly	extreme	weather	events,	pose	a	potential	risk	to	our	operations.	Our	Citi	Realty	Services	(CRS)	Group	and	our	Crisis	Management	and	Business	Continuity	teams	help	us	to	monitor,	prepare	for	and	respond	to	extreme	weather	events	or	other	disruptions	to	our	operations.	In	addition,	CRS	conducts	due	diligence	for	each	proposed	new	location	and	reassesses	the	properties’	structural	resilience	periodically,	based	on	risk,	as	well	as	following	significant	events.	These	assessments	take	internal	Citi	standards,	as	well	as	local	and	international	codes,	into	account.	Because	Citi	operates	in	nearly	100	countries,	our	facilities	could	potentially	be	exposed	to	a	range	of	varied	climaterelated	risks.	To	increase	our	resiliency,	we	have	invested	in	climate	adaptation	solutions	in	a	number	of	critical	facilities.	In	addition,	our	crisis	management	team	has	developed	action	plans	to	address	immediate	risks	and	support	our	employees	and	customers	before,	during	and	after	adverse	events.	Our	business	continuity	team	also	has	plans	in	place	to	help	Citi	resume	business	operations	as	quickly	as	possible	in	the	aftermath	of	an	extreme	climate	event.Transparent Reporting of Operational Climate ImpactsCiti	reports	our	Scope	1,	Scope	2	and	Scope	3	GHG	emissions	in	both	this	ESG	report	and	in	our	CDP	response.	We	began	reporting	on	the	direct	environmental	impacts	of	our	operations	in	2002	and	have	submitted	data	to	CDP	every	year	since	2003.	We	follow	the	GHG	Protocol	Corporate	Standard	and	Scope	2	Guidance	for	measuring	and	reporting	both	marketbased	and	location-based	Scope	1	and	Scope	2	GHG	emissions.We	also	report	Scope	3	CO2	emissions	from	air	and	train	business	travel	in	this	ESG	report,	and	we	report	Scope	3	electricity	transmission	loss	and	employee	commuting	data	to	CDP.	In	early	2022,	Citi	received	the	following	scores	from	CDP	related	to	2020	data:	•	Climate	change	score:	A-	•	Supplier	engagement	score:	A	Our	GHG	emissions	and	environmental	data	for	our	operations	and	business	travel	are	verified	and	assured	by	SGS,	a	leading	third-party	inspection,	verification,	testing	and	certification	company.	For	our	SGS	Assurance	Statement,	see	the	Assurance	section.	
Environmental Performance for OperationsOPERATIONAL FOOTPRINT GOALS (MEASURED AGAINST A 2010 BASELINE)GoalsProgress through 2021Maintain 100% renewable electricity sourcing100.0%*45% reduction in location-based GHG emissions49.8%40% reduction in energy consumption37.9%30% reduction in total water consumption38.8%25% of water consumed to come from reclaimed/reused sources7.0%40% of floor area to be LEED, WELL or equivalent certified34.7%**50% reduction in total waste55.8%50% of waste diverted from landfill22.8%*	91%	meeting	RE100	market	boundary	criteria;	9%	sourced	from	regionally	aligned	markets.**	2021	total	includes	14	EDGE	projects	in	Latin	America.LEED-CERTIFIED BUILDINGS BY REGION*RegionCertified*SilverGoldPlatinumTotalAsia Pacific10295112102Europe, Middle East and Africa4730950Latin America 2376123North America3533732143Total727616024332* Certified	total	includes	14	EDGE	projects	in	Latin	America.LEED-CERTIFIED BUILDINGS BY BUILDING TYPE*Building Type20172018201920202021**Branches4114147Data Centers10000DC File Storage00000Office Buildings1212181519Operational Centers31121Total2014333127Cumulative Total***227241274305332* This	is	based	on	the	active	buildings	in	the	portfolio	as	of	year	end	2021	and	excludes	projects	for	inactive	and	disposed	buildings.**	2021	total	includes	14	EDGE	projects	in	Latin	America	(13	office	and	1	branch).***	Includes	buildings	certified	prior	to	2017.Environmental Performance for Operations (continued)GHG EMISSIONS (SCOPE 1 & 2) BY REGIONRegionScope 1 C02e(mt)Scope 2 CO2eLocation-Based (mt)Scope 2 CO2eMarket-Based (mt) Total CO2eLocation-Based (mt)Total CO2eMarket-Based (mt)Asia Pacific755133,94750,807134,70251,562Europe, Middle East  and Africa3,93942,2485,17146,1879,111Latin America2,04683,9694,02286,0156,068North America37,943203,147978241,09038,921REGIONAL OPERATIONAL ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCERegionGHG EmissionsLocation-Based (mt)GHG Emissions Market-Based (mt)	Total Energy 	Total Water Consumption Consumption 	(GWh)	(m3)Total Waste (mt)Asia Pacific134,70251,562215593,9884,324Europe, Middle East  and Africa46,1879,111171315,9641,911Latin America86,0156,068219801,0147,767North America241,09038,9217431,908,66311,593ENERGY CONSUMPTION BY MARKET-BASED EMISSION FACTOR TYPESEmission Factor BasisElectricity (kWh)Steam (kWh)Chilled Water (kWh) Total (kWh)% of Total ConsumptionRECs or Other Energy Attribute Certificates (EACs)865,079,67500865,079,67576%PPA or Source Contract140,856,00700140,856,00712%Self-Generated Renewables117,60400117,6040%Supplier-Specific00000%Residual Mix00652,402652,4020%Regionally Aligned EACs – Grid Average104,781,026017,274,301122,055,32711%Steam Default08,427,18908,427,1891%Total1,110,834,3128,427,18917,926,7031,137,188,204100%Note:	Figures	may	not	sum	to	totals	due	to	rounding.Environmental Impact Report20102017 2018201920202021Operating Sq. Ft.64,172,24748,051,23045,137,58745,116,34442,349,24940,746,199Headcount336,622208,043199,458188,779193,989200,347ABSOLUTE INDICATORSEnergy201020172018201920202021Natural Gas (GWh)12363807065178LP Gas (GWh)------111Fuel Oil (GWh)502928000Diesel (GWh)------323032Scope 1 Energy (GWh)1739210810495210Electricity (GWh)1,9221,4471,3741,3121,1801,111District Heating (Steam & Chilled Water) (GWh)745857462926Scope 2 Energy (GWh)1,9961,5051,4311,3581,2091,137Total Energy (GWh)2,1691,5971,5391,4611,3041,348CO2e Emissions201020172018201920202021Direct CO2e (GHG Scope 1)(Gas & Fuel Oil) 38,91220,95124,13223,09521,23644,683Indirect CO2e  (GHG Scope 2) (Electricity, Steam  & Chilled Water)973,169677,636620,485568,780505,224463,311Total CO2e (mt)1,012,081698,587644,618591,875526,459507,994Water Consumption201020172018201920202021Potable Water (m3)5,899,4584,595,5064,269,2804,205,4343,444,9613,366,620Nonpotable Water (m3)15,299284,292247,846277,642337,431253,010Total Water Consumption (m3)5,914,7574,879,7984,517,1274,483,0763,782,3923,619,630Note:	Figures	may	not	sum	to	totals	due	to	rounding.Note:	Historical	data	can	vary	from	year	to	year	due	to	changes	in	operational	control	as	a	result	of	acquisitions	and	dispositions	of	businesses.	Historical	adjustments	are	not	made	as	a	result	of	organic	growth	or	decline	for	businesses	remaining	under	operational	control.Environmental Impact Report (continued)Waste201020172018201920202021Recycled Office Paper (mt)17,41411,70910,95310,7606,2515,824Refuse and Other (mt)40,47126,84626,67725,63321,15319,771Total Waste (mt)57,88538,55537,63036,39327,40425,595RELATIVE INDICATORSTotal Energy Consumed201020172018201920202021kWh/Rentable Sq. Ft.343334323133kWh/Headcount6,4447,6787,7177,7406,7136,726Net CO2e201020172018201920202021Metric Tons/Rentable  Sq. Ft.0.020.010.010.010.010.01Metric Tons/Headcount3.013.363.233.142.712.54SCOPE 3 EMISSIONSBusiness Travel201020172018201920202021Business Air Travel CO2e (mt)100,243151,112149,588126,05521,78510,554Business Train Travel CO2e (mt)NA2092271744432Note:	Historical	data	can	vary	from	year	to	year	due	to	changes	in	operational	control	as	a	result	of	acquisitions	and	dispositions	of	businesses.	Historical	adjustments	are	not	made	as	a	result	of	organic	growth	or	decline	for	businesses	remaining	under	operational	control.
In This Section	62	Our	Commitment	to	Social	Finance	66	Action for Racial Equity	70	Citi	Impact	Fund	72	COVID-19	Relief	and	Recovery	75	Affordable	Housing	78	Strategic	PhilanthropyContents 	ESG at Citi 	Sustainable Finance 	Sustainable Progress 	Equitable&ResilientCommunities 	Talent & DEI 	Risk Management & Responsible Business 	AppendicesOver the past two years, the COVID-19 pandemic reaffirmed the urgency to address the vast and growing inequities facing our global society, from financial security and access to basic human necessities to affordable housing and economic opportunity. Throughout 2021, Citi and the Citi Foundation accelerated and expanded investments in communities around the world, helping to support a more inclusive recovery and more equitable future. Investing in Our Communities2021 Highlights	Announced our	 	$500B 	$59B 	Social Finance Goal	in social finance activity  globally in 2020 and 2021 Committed to reach Issued inaugural 15M 	$1B	households, including  	Citi Social Finance  	10 million women, by 2025	Bond offering 	$1B 	$5.64B 	invested in initiatives 	financed for affordable  to help close the racial 	housing projects in the  wealth gap	United States 	68% 	$100+M of asset allocation directed to women and/	in grants provided by  or racially/ethnically diverse founders of 	the Citi Foundation companies through the Citi Impact FundBuilding	on	our	longstanding	leadership	in	financial	inclusion,	we	expanded	the	scope	of	our	social	finance	efforts	to	maximize	our	impacts	and	to	help	achieve	the	$500	Billion	Social	Finance	Goal	we	set	as	part	of	our	overall	$1	trillion	commitment	to	sustainable	finance	by	2030.	We	invested	$1	billion	in	a	broad	suite	of	initiatives	designed	to	help	close	the	racial	wealth	gap	in	the	United	States	and	to	increase	economic	mobility	through	Citi	and	the	Citi	Foundation’s	Action for Racial Equity	commitment.	And	we	increased	our	investments	in	the	Citi	Impact	Fund,	more	than	half	of	which	went	to	minority-owned	and	women-owned	companies.We	also	continued	to	support	COVID-19	relief	and	recovery	efforts	globally	while	staying	focused	on	our	long-term	priorities,	including	affordable	housing	and	the	Citi	Foundation’s	strategic	grantmaking	efforts.	Our	Commitment	to	Social	Finance
Billions of people around the  world lack access to basic  necessities — clean water,  education, electricity, financial products, housing, medicine —  hampering their economic  progress and social growth. As	an	institution	with	a	longstanding	history	of	driving	positive	social	impact	and	financial	innovations	that	benefit	communities	around	the	world,	we	took	our	commitment	to	a	new	level	in	2021:	announcing	a	$500	Billion	Social	Finance	Goal	as	part	of	our	$1	trillion	commitment	to	sustainable	finance	by	2030	with	corresponding	criteria	for	activities	related	to	affordable	basic	infrastructure,	affordable	housing,	diversity	and	equity,	economic	inclusion,	education,	food	security	and	healthcare.		Many	of	our	Citi	business	units	—	including	Banking,	Capital	Markets	and	Advisory;	Global	Markets;	Trade	and	Treasury	Services;	Citi	Community	Capital;	and	Citi	Commercial	Bank	—	are	dedicated	to	delivering	products	and	services	that	can	contribute	to	the	social	finance	goal.	These	include	the	issuance	of	social	bonds	and	sustainability-linked	bonds,	financing	and	advisory	services	to	companies	with	social	missions,	creation	of	municipal	bonds	with	social	use	of	proceeds	(such	as	education	or	health),	or	loans	and	facilities	with	eligible	social	use	of	proceeds.	We	have	broadened	the	focus	of	our	global	Citi	Social	Finance	team,	formerly	our	Inclusive	Finance	team,	which	works	across	Citi	businesses	globally	to	develop	scalable	business	platforms	and	client	solutions	that	enable	the	bank,	our	clients	and	partners	to	expand	financial	inclusion,	accelerate	access	to	basic	services,	boost	job	creation	and	scale	social	infrastructure	development	in	emerging	markets.	As	part	of	our	social	finance	focus,	we	are	aiming	to	invest	in	opportunities	for	15	million	low-income	households,	including	10	million	women,	globally	by	2025.	The	recent	expansion	of	this	team	builds	on	our	15-year	track	record	of	developing	new	business	models	and	partnerships	that	leverage	market-based	approaches	to	improve	the	livelihoods	of	low-income	communities	around	the	world.	Since	2007,	these	efforts	have	reached		4.1	million	unbanked	and	underbanked		individuals	in	emerging	markets	—		including	3.7	million	women.		These	efforts,	which	are	focused	on	supporting	emerging	markets,	are	complemented	by	our	social	finance	activities	in	higher-income	countries,	such	as	our	work	to	finance	affordable	housing	projects	in	the	United	States	and	to	issue	bonds	that	help	advance	a	range	of	social	solutions.Read	some	case	studies	of	the	deals	that	will	contribute	to	our	$1	trillion	commitment	later	in	this	chapter	and	in	the	Sustainable	Finance	section.	Our	extensive	work	on	social	finance	contributes	to	progress	on	SDG 8,	which	aims,	among	other	things,	to	provide full and productive employment and decent work for all.	For	example,	Citi’s	work	on	financial	inclusion	around	the	world	contributes	to	target	8.3,	which	encourages	productive activities, decent job creation, entrepreneurship, creativity and innovation, and the formalization and growth of micro-, small- and medium-sized enterprises through access to financial services.	Our	approach	also	supports	target	8.10,	which	aims	to	strengthen the capacity of domestic financial institutions to encourage and expand access to banking, insurance and financial services for all.	Social	finance	is	also	a	key	success	factor	for	progress	on	SDG 9,	which	aims	to	build resilient infrastructure, promote inclusive and sustainable industrialization and foster innovation,	specifically	enabling	progress	on	target	9.3,	which	seeks	to	increase the access of smallscale enterprises, facilitating integration into value chains and markets.	And	our	work	on	catalyzing	the	distribution	of	small	loans	in	emerging	markets	—	which	typically	benefits	women	—	directly	contributes	to	SDG 5,	in	support	of	gender equality and empowerment for all women and girls,	and	in	particular	target	5.a,	which	strives	for	a	range	of	gender-related	objectives,	including	giving	women equal rights to economic resources.		SDG Goal 8: Decent Work and Economic Growth SDG Goal 9: Industry, Innovation and Infrastructure SDG Goal 5: Gender Equality 

Social Finance TransactionsThe	following	are	examples	of	social	finance	transactions	from	2021	that	demonstrate	our	efforts	to	drive	positive	social	impact	in	Contents 	ESG at Citi 	Sustainable Finance 	Sustainable Progress 	Equitable&ResilientCommunities 	Talent & DEI 	Risk Management & Responsible Business 	AppendicesAction for Racial Equity
In the midst of a global pandemic that disproportionately affected communities of color, we took a hard look at ourselves and our own contribution to the status quo. We saw how we could use our power — as individuals, as a company and as an industry —  to drive a lasting transformative movement toward greater equity. The	result	was	Action for Racial Equity,	a	four-pronged	commitment	of	Citi	and	the	Citi	Foundation	to	invest	more	than	$1	billion	by	2023	in	strategic	initiatives	to	provide	greater	access	to	banking	and	credit	in	communities	of	color,	increase	investment	in	Black-owned	businesses,	expand	affordable	housing	and	homeownership	among	Black	Americans,	and	advance	anti-racist	practices	in	our	own	company	and	in	the	financial	services	industry.By	November	2021	—	one	year	into	our	three-year	pledge	—	we	had	already	invested	$1	billion	into	initiatives	expanding	economic	opportunity	for	communities	of	color,	putting	us	on	track	to	exceed	our	original	$1.1	billion	commitment	set	in	2020.	Since	the	launch	of	Action for Racial Equity,	we	have	been	engaged	across	our	business	to	think	and	act	in	support	of	equity	and	our	goal	of	closing	the	racial	wealth	gap	and	increasing	economic	mobility	in	the	United	States.	Throughout	2021,	we	worked	on	one	of	our	key	measures	of	success	—	institutionalizing	the	commitment	to	racial	equity	across	the	firm.	For	example,	we	created	the	Diverse	Financial	Institutions	Group,	a	dedicated	team	within	Citi	that	is	serving	as	a	hub	to	lead	and	expand	firmwide	engagement	with	minority	depository	institutions	(MDIs),	diverse	broker-dealers	and	diverse	asset	managers.	We’re	also	diversifying	our	teams	to	better	serve	our	communities.	We	started	to	develop	a	centralized	Financial	Inclusion	and	Racial	Equity	Segment	Team	within	U.S.	Personal	Banking	to	develop	targeted	and	integrated	segment	strategies,	drive	seamless	customer-centric	execution,	and	champion	greater	financial	inclusion,	racial	equity	and	customer	protection.	We’re	harnessing	our	influence	to	encourage	our	law	firm	and	agency	partners	to	join	us	in	efforts	to	advance	racial	equity.	We	obtained	detailed	diversity	data	from	the	U.S.	law	partners	who	make	up	more	than	two-thirds	of	our	U.S.	legal	spend,	enabling	us	to	identify	opportunities	to	increase	representation	of	diverse	attorneys	on	Citi’s	legal	matters.	And	we’re	working	with	advertising	agency	partners	that	comprise	the	largest	portion	of	our	marketing	spend	to	increase	diverse	representation	of	agency	teams,	including	senior	leadership,	to	help	ensure	diversity	in	Citi	marketing	materials.		We	recognize	that	to	continue	closing	the	racial	wealth	gap,	we	need	an	approach	that	sparks	immediate	change	while	also	creating	economic	solutions	that	support	systemic	change	for	the	long	term.	We	also	recognize	the	need	to	hold	ourselves	accountable,	starting	with	being	transparent	about	where	we	are	and	where	we	need	to	continue	pushing	to	improve.	That’s	why	we	committed	to	a	third-party	racial	equity	audit	of	our	Action for Racial Equity	commitments.	Additionally,	we	were	the	first	major	Wall	Street	bank	to	participate	in	the	Management	Leadership	for	Tomorrow	Black	Equity	at	Work	Certification,	which	was	created	to	help	guide	companies	and	keep	them	accountable	for	making	progress	around	Black	equity.	(Learn	more	about	the	certification	in	the	Talent	and	Diversity,	Equity	&	Inclusion	section.)	Our	Action for Racial Equity	commitments	contribute	to	SDG 8,	which	aims,	among	other	things,	to	provide full and productive employment and decent work for all	and	specifically	contributes	to	target	8.3,	which	supports	productive activities, decent job creation, entrepreneurship, creativity and innovation, and the formalization and growth of micro-, small- and medium-sized enterprises through access to financial services.	Our	approach	also	supports	target	8.10:	to	strengthen the capacity of domestic financial institutions to encourage and expand access to banking, insurance and financial services for all.	The	affordable	housing	components	of	Action for Racial Equity	align	with	SDG	target	11.1,	which	includes	providing	access for all to adequate, safe and affordable housing and basic services.		SDG Goal 8: Decent Work and Economic SDG Goal 11: Sustainable Cities and Communities

RACIAL EQUITY AUDITMeasurement and transparency are essential components of our efforts to advance diversity, equity and inclusion both at our own bank and through our contributions to our communities and society more broadly. In that spirit, we committed to conduct a third-party racial equity audit to assess our efforts to help address the racial wealth gap in the United States through the design and implementation of Action for Racial Equity. Covington & Burling LLP, which has civil rights expertise and experience leading racial equity audits across various industries, is conducting the audit. The firm is gathering input from a range of stakeholders, including Citi employees involved in implementing Action for Racial Equity, financial institutions and other partners directly benefiting or involved in implementing the initiative, and civil rights organizations that can represent the views of the customers and communities the initiative is designed to support. Conducting an audit of Action for Racial Equity will help Citi assess our work and will show where we can adapt and grow to make an even more meaningful impact going forward. The audit represents another step in our efforts to strengthen Citi’s policies and practices in order to become an antiracist institution. The audit began in January 2022, and we look forward to sharing the findings following its expected completion at the end of 2022.BRIDGE BUILT BY CITISMMany small- and medium-sized businesses in the United States find that securing a loan can be a time-consuming, manual process. Business owners are often limited to banks near their own locations, while local and community banks can have a tough time broadening their reach to potential borrowers. Enter Bridge built by CitiSM, a new lending platform that democratizes the loan process by matching small- and mediumsized businesses online with regional, local and community banks for loans up to $10 million. Launched in August 2021, the platform aims to expand access to capital for smaller businesses while widening the customer base for lenders. Twenty-nine banks, including nine minority depository institutions (MDIs), are participating in a pilot program in seven states in the Southeast and Rockies regions.Learn more about our engagement with other MDIs. HARTE THOMPSON, SENIOR VICE PRESIDENT, CO-CREATOR, BRIDGE BUILT BY CITIWhat began as a sketch on a whiteboard has now given many business owners the access to banks that they deserve.”ROHIT MATHUR, DIRECTOR, CO-CREATOR, BRIDGE BUILT BY CITIInnovation in financial technology forces you to create a new path without being able to rely on how things have always been done. We have leveraged the expertise of professionals at our bank to create a fintech solution.”Contents 	ESG at Citi 	Sustainable Finance 	Sustainable Progress 	Equitable&ResilientCommunities 	Talent & DEI 	Risk Management & Responsible Business 	AppendicesCollaborating with MDIs  Minority depository institutions (MDIs) have long been the trusted source of banking and access to capital for communities of color. For generations, they have provided essential financial services, especially for Black Americans who have not had equitable access to the mainstream banking system and therefore had fewer opportunities to build generational wealth.Research shows that, compared with other financial institutions, MDIs originate a greater share of mortgages to borrowers of color.* They also originate a greater share of small business loans guaranteed by the Small Business Administration to entrepreneurs of color than other financial institutions.But since 2001, the number of Black-owned and operated banks has declined by more than half.** As of September 2021, there were only 20 Black banking institutions, and only one of them held more than $1 billion of assets.*** One of the four goals of Action for Racial Equity is expanding banking and access to credit in communities of color, in part through collaboration with MDIs. During Citi focus groups with Black MDIs, leaders overwhelmingly prioritized access to capital and capacitybuilding investments to grow their revenue and operations, which would enable the MDIs to diversify products and expand services.Our collaboration with Unity National Bank is just one example of how we’re offering expertise and guidance to MDIs. We have supported growth capital opportunities for Unity by providing an equity investment and inviting Unity in on select project-based affordable housing lending opportunities, including a loan for 381 affordable housing units in Texas.We also onboarded Unity on the Bridge built by CitiSM platform to help expand their customer base, and we have enabled Unity to gain contract-based revenue as a subcontractor on existing Citi federal business lines. In order to help Unity prepare for long-term growth, we’re collaborating on shared media and client conversations and supporting talent acquisition by exposing high-achieving students of color to banking as a career. Further, pro bono technical assistance delivered in collaboration with Deloitte and the National Bankers Association is helping Unity to strengthen access to talent pipeline development initiatives and corporate board seats.In 2021, we doubled down on our collaboration with Unity by piloting the Citi Rotational Program, which embedded a Citi executive at Unity with the mandate of supporting revenue generation through the New Markets Tax Credit Program and expanding their affordable housing work.DR. KASE LAWAL, CHAIRMAN, UNITY NATIONAL BANK“Lack of wealth generation opportunities and access to affordable housing continue to plague Black and Brown communities, and our mission is to create equitable access to capital to help fill that void. We’re thrilled to have the continued support and partnership of Citi, including their equity investment and embedded senior counsel, to help grow our business. Together, we can find more opportunities to drive economic value and impact in the communities we serve.” *	Federal	Deposit	Insurance	Corporation,	“2019	Minority	Depository	Institutions:	Structure,	Performance,	and	Social	Impact.”		**	Federal	Deposit	Insurance	Corporation,	“Minority	Depository	Institutions	List,	Historical	Data	Year-by-Year	2001-2020.”	***	Federal	Deposit	Insurance	Corporation,	“Minority	Depository	Institutions	List,	Fourth	Quarter	2020.”	Citi	Impact	Fund
The Citi Impact Fund is a $200 million venture capital fund with a mission of investing in “double bottom line” companies that are addressing societal challenges, such as reaching low- and moderate-income households with innovative financial and workforce services, delivering solutions for the climate transition economy, and addressing needs for inclusive healthcare and housing. Venture	capital	funding	has	historically	been	inaccessible	to	most	start-up	founders,	but	especially	so	for	women	and	people	of	color.The	fund,	which	at	its	founding	in	2020	was	the	largest	impact	fund	ever	launched	by	a	bank	using	its	own	capital,	focuses	on	companies	that	are	led	or	owned	by	women	or	racial/ethnic	minorities.	We	started	the	fund	with	$150	million	in	January	2020,	adding	another	$50	million	specifically	to	support	businesses	owned	by	Black	entrepreneurs	as	part	of	Action for Racial Equity.

COVID-19	Relief	and	Recovery
Throughout 2021, Citi and the Citi Foundation continued to address immediate needs for COVID-19 relief while staying focused on longer-term economic recovery. Many of our efforts were geared toward underserved communities around the world, which were facing disproportionate burdens from the global pandemic.  By	the	end	of	2021,	Citi	and	the	Citi	Foundation	had	contributed	more	than	$160	million	in	COVID-19	and	recovery	efforts	since	the	beginning	of	the	pandemic.	Total	contributions	included		$3	million	from	Citi	employees	to	date.	Citi	and	the	Citi	Foundation	provided	support	to	organizations	—	small	and	large	—	all	around	the	world:	food	donations	and	meal	kits	to	help	people	facing	food	insecurity;	support	for	housing	stability	loans;	emergency	child	care	programs;	medical	and	personal	protective	equipment;	COVID-19	screening	and	testing	funds,	and	more.		In	India,	as	cases	surged	in	the	spring	of	2021,	Citi	pledged	$27	million	over	three	years	toward	recovery	and	relief	efforts.	Of	the	total	pledged,	$10	million	was	allocated	immediately	toward	the	procurement	of	oxygen	supplies	and	other	equipment	for	frontline	healthcare	workers.	The	funds	also	went	toward	food	and	hygiene	supplies	for	approximately	200,000	low-income	families.In	Asia,	the	Citi	Foundation’s	grant	to	the	Resilient	Cities	Network	supports	small-	and	medium-sized	businesses	while	advancing	the	recovery	of	selected	cities	in	the	region.	The	Catalyzing	City	Resilience	Solutions	(CCRS)	program	is	working	with	municipal	governments	to	help	local	economies	recover	from	the	medium-sized	enterprises	(SME)	and	empowering	them	to	create	and	scale	urban	solutions	that	will	enable	greater	resilience.	CCRS	is	structured	to	include	an	initial	assessment	phase	where	cities	can	assess	the	impact	of	the	pandemic	on	a	particular	sector	and	local	economy;	an	accelerator	phase	where	cities	and	the	selected	SME	sector	co-create	solutions	that	address	critical	resiliency	challenges;	and	a	pilot	project	phase	to	demonstrate	the	potential	of	the	selected	solution.	The	participating	city	of	Melaka,	Malaysia,	for	example,	is	exploring	how	to	support	the	SME	ecosystem	along	the	Melaka	riverfront,	which	was	especially	affected	by	a	drop	in	tourism.	The	assessment	phase	revealed	that	SMEs	in	the	area	are	facing	gaps	in	knowledge	and	capacity	to	rebuild	from	the	pandemic	and	that	there	is	a	lack	of	stakeholder	communication	to	deliver	on	resilience	initiatives.	Based	on	these	findings,	Melaka	will	launch	and	test	a	platform	to	increase	collaboration	among	key	stakeholders	through	joint	trainings	and	problem-solving	sessions	for	government	officials	and	local	entrepreneurs. announced	a	$25	million	investment	to	be	distributed	to	nonprofit	organizations	that	provide	technical	assistance	to	minority-owned	businesses	navigating	the	continued	economic	impacts	of	the	pandemic.	The	50	grant	recipients,	which	each	received	$500,000	in	unrestricted	support,	are	local,	community-based	change	agents	that	have	the	expertise,	experience	and	relationships	to	provide	tailored,	on-the-ground	support	for	affected	businesses	and	the	communities	they	serve.In	addition,	Citi	deepened	our	relationship	with	No	Kid	Hungry,	an	organization	working	to	end	childhood	hunger	in	the	United	States,	to	help	address	the	ongoing	issue	of	food	insecurity	during	COVID-19.	In	2021,	we	provided	$2.8	million	in	new	funding	to	support	various	campaigns	aimed	at	helping	the	rapid	response	to	school	and	community	needs	in	New	York	City.	Learn	more	about	our	work	with	No	Kid	Hungry.


Contents 	ESG at Citi 	Sustainable Finance 	Sustainable Progress 	Equitable&ResilientCommunities 	Talent & DEI 	Risk Management & Responsible Business 	AppendicesAffordable	Housing
Citi finances affordable and workforce housing in low- and moderate-income urban and suburban areas in an effort to ease the affordable housing crisis in the United States. We offer a range of housing finance solutions, including construction lending, tax credit equity and permanent financing through our balance sheet.Citi	Community	Capital,	the	bank	unit	through	which	we	finance	all	types	of	affordable	housing	and	community	development	projects,	reported	approximately	$5.64	billion	of	lending	to	finance	affordable	rental	housing	projects	in	2021.	In	fact,	for	12	consecutive	years,	Citi	has	been	the	No.	1	affordable	housing	lender	in	the	United	States,	as	published	by	Affordable	Housing	Finance.	At	Citi,	being	a	leader	in	the	affordable	housing	industry	does	not	just	mean	making	debt	and	equity	capital	available	to	expand	the	U.S.	affordable	housing	supply;	it	also	means	being	an	innovator	and	market	leader.	Over	the	past	several	years	we	have	worked	with	our	clients	to	find	new	ways	to	lower	the	cost	of	building	housing	and	increase	the	supply	of	housing	for	our	most	vulnerable	populations.	For	example,	Citi	was	among	the	first	banks	to	provide	construction	loans	to	projects	using	modular,	or	factory-built,	housing.	In	2021,	we	provided	$19.6	million	in	total	financing	for	Oatsie’s	Place,	a	new	modular	housing	project	in	Los	Angeles,	where	45	of	46	apartments	are	designated	for	homeless	women.	In	an	effort	to	promote	long-term	housing	stability,	eligible	residents	are	provided	with	additional	services	to	support	their	transitions	from	homelessness	to	permanent	housing.forward	commitment	for	the	permanent	financing	of	Hayu	Tilixam,	a	50-unit	apartment	complex	set	to	be	built	in	Portland,	Oregon.	Through	a	partnership	with	Community	Development	Partners	and	the	Native	American	Youth	and	consistent	with	our	pledge	to	align	community	engagement	with	SDG	target	11.1,	which	includes	providing	access for all to adequate, safe and affordable housing and basic services.	Family	Center,	Hayu	Tilixam	will	provide	a		SDG Goal 11: Sustainable Cities and Communitieswelcoming	and	culturally	sensitive	home	for	Indigenous	families	and	youth.	All	units	will	be	reserved	for	residents	with	incomes	between	30%	to	50%	of	the	area	Named #1 Affordable median	income,	and	eight	units	will	be	Housing Lender in reserved	for	formerly	homeless	residents.	the United States by Residents	will	have	access	to	support	Affordable Housing services,	including	housing	stability	support,	culturally-specific	medical,	Finance for the 12th dental	and	behavioral	health	services,	Consecutive Year homeownership	coaching	and	more.	


Contents 	ESG at Citi 	Sustainable Finance 	Sustainable Progress 	Equitable&ResilientCommunities 	Talent & DEI 	Risk Management & Responsible Business 	AppendicesStrategic	Philanthropy
Through strategic grant-making efforts, the Citi Foundation promotes economic progress in low-income communities around the world, focusing in particular on programs that increase financial inclusion, catalyze job opportunities for youth, and reimagine approaches to building economically vibrant communities. The	Citi	Foundation’s	“More	than	Philanthropy”	approach	leverages	the	expertise	of	Citi	and	its	people	to	fulfill	our	mission	and	drive	thought	leadership	and	innovation.Pathways	to	Progress,	one	of	Citi	and	the	Citi	Foundation’s	flagship	initiatives,	aims	to	equip	young	people	—	particularly	those	from	underserved	communities	—	with	the	skills	and	networks	they	need	to	succeed	in	today’s	rapidly	changing	economy.Between	the	program’s	launch	in	2014	and	the	end	of	2021,	the	Citi	Foundation	invested	more	than	$275	million	in	workforce	preparation	globally.		Through	the	Pathways	to	Progress	initiative,	Citi	and	the	Citi	Foundation	support	SDG target 8.6,	which	aims	to	substantially reduce the proportion of youth not in employment, education or training.		 SDG Goal 8: Decent Work and Economic 
	Sustainable Progress 	Equitable&ResilientCommunities 	Talent & DEI COMMUNITY PROGRESS MAKERSIn 2015, the Citi Foundation launched its Community Progress Makers Initiative with a vision of empowering community leaders to grow their transformative impact through unrestricted, trust-based funding. That approach and support is more important than ever as the United States continues to address the root causes and impacts of income and wealth inequality.In December 2021, the Foundation announced 50 nonprofit organizations as the newest recipients of unrestricted grants to advance social and economic opportunity for underserved communities. The $25 million grant initiative supports visionary organizations that are working to connect low-income communities and communities of color to greater social and economic opportunity in six cities: Chicago, Los Angeles, Miami, New York, San Francisco and Washington, D.C. Each Community Progress Maker will receive an unrestricted grant of $500,000 and access to technical assistance and a facilitated supportive learning community.The recipients are working on a range of social issues, including the expansion of affordable housing and access, environmental sustainability, economic development, financial health and wellness, and workforce readiness/high-quality jobs. The Foundation will provide a supportive community network through which these organizations can connect to learn from each other, share best practices and strengthen their roles as social change agents. As part of the initiative, the Citi Foundation is engaging longtime grantee Urban Institute to provide technical assistance to the cohort, helping to measure their impact and track their progress.According to a recent report from Citi Global Perspectives & Solutions, there is a growing need for multiyear, unrestricted funding, which empowers nonprofits to invest in the financial sustainability of their organization and gives them the flexibility to adapt to evolving challenges. This kind of philanthropic support is even more urgent as local communities continue to face complex challenges posed by the COVID-19 pandemic.In This Section	81	Return	to	Office	and	the	Future	of	Work	83	Diversity,	Equity	&	Inclusion	97	Using	Our	Corporate	Voice	to	Drive	Change	99	Employment	DataAs the pandemic persisted through 2021, we continued to put the safety, health and well-being of our colleagues first. Early on in the health crisis, we developed principles that have consistently guided our decisions, including how we returned to the office. We focused on data, not dates, took a localized approach, and were transparent with colleagues that we would continue to learn and adapt as we go. Much of our attention was on creating a safe and welcoming workplace for today, while also pushing ourselves to envision new ways of working for  tomorrow — a model that is more flexible, agile and collaborative.  Despite the ongoing challenges of the pandemic, we continued to make progress on our commitments to fostering a diverse and inclusive workplace and using our corporate voice to drive change.Return	to	Office	and	the	Future		
of	WorkIf	the	pandemic	taught	us	anything	from	an	employee	wellness	perspective,	it	was	the	value	of	flexibility.	As	the	situation	surrounding	the	virus	continued	to	evolve,	we	focused	on	how	we	could	bring	our	colleagues	safely	back	to	the	office.	At	the	same	time,	COVID-19	opened	our	minds	to	new	ways	of	working.	While	we	know	there	are	enormous	benefits	to	being	together	in	person,	we	saw	just	how	productive	and	effective	remote	work	could	be.	We	recognized	that	we	couldn’t	go	back	to	the	way	things	were	and	that	we	had	to	adapt	to	new	realities.	After	coming	to	understand	just	how	important	flexibility	is	to	our	current	and	future	success	as	a	firm,	we	became	the	first	major	U.S.	bank	to	publicly	embrace	a	hybrid	model	of	work	for	our	colleagues	moving	forward.	As	vaccinations	became	widely	available	in	the	United	States,	United	Kingdom	and	other	parts	of	the	world,	and	where	the	data	told	us	it	was	safe	to	do	so,	we	began	to	bring	colleagues	back	to	the	office	in	a	hybrid	model	—	with	a	minimum	of	two	days	per	week	in	person	and	a	few	days	from	home.	Colleagues	in	more	than	30	locations	across	the	U.S.	returned	to	the	office	in	2021.	We	required	colleagues	returning	to	those	sites	to	be	vaccinated	distance	wherever	possible.	For	colleagues	working	in	our	branches,	we	required	rapid	testing	and	masks	in	2021,	and	vaccination	as	of	early	2022.	Understanding	there	is	not	a	one-size-fits-all	approach,	we	adjusted	our	global	return-to-office	efforts	region	by	region,	based	on	local	data,	vaccine	availability	and	country	mandates.Equally	important,	we	communicated	regularly	and	consistently	with	our	colleagues	—	sending	messages	from	our	CEO	and	senior	leaders	to	keep	people	informed	of	our	plans	to	return	to	the	office	and	equipping	our	managers	with	resources	and	information	so	that	they,	in	turn,	could	effectively	support	their	teams	and	answer	questions.“new	normal”	in	early	2020,	we	listened	to	feedback	from	our	employees	and	enacted	policies	to	help	ease	the	blurring	of	lines	between	home	and	work.	In	response,	in	2021	we	launched	“Zoom-Free	Fridays”	for	internal	meetings	to	combat	the	wellrecognized	fatigue	from	virtual	meetings.	We	asked	colleagues	whenever	they	could	to	designate	noon	to	1	p.m	in	local	times	as	an	hour	free	of	calls	and	meetings,	as	well	as	to	reduce	hour-long	meetings	to	45	minutes	to	give	colleagues	time	in	between	sessions.	We	also	offered	a	“Reset	Day”	in	May	for	colleagues	to	take	a	day	off	to	recharge	and	added	several	new	benefits	to	further	support	work-life	balance.	
The Future of Work One	of	the	silver	linings	of	the	pandemic	was	that	our	colleagues	and	teams	learned	new	and	different	ways	of	working	when	the	virus	initially	closed	the	doors	of	our	offices.	At	Citi,	we	felt	it	would	be	a	missed	opportunity	if	we	didn’t	seize	the	moment	to	reimagine	the	workplace	once	the	pandemic	eases.Our	CEO,	Jane	Fraser,	boldly	embraced	the	desire	to	be	a	bank	with	brains	and	a	soul,	and	to	break	out	of	the	traditional	mindset	that	required	our	colleagues	to	be	in	the	office	all	day,	every	business	day.	We	established	principles	to	guide	our	flexible,	future	work	model	and	related	ways	of	working	—	all	with	the	aim	to	drive	collaboration	and	meaningful	connections,	maximize	apprenticeship	and	learning	opportunities,	leverage	technology	to	our	advantage,	support	colleague	well-being	and	belonging,	and	treat	our	colleagues	equitably.	We	announced	this	future	work	model	will	take	effect	after	colleagues	return	to	the	office,	and	the	model	will	provide	hybrid,	remote	and	resident	designations	for	colleagues.	Hybrid	roles	offer	colleagues	the	flexibility	to	work	at	least	three	days	per	week	in	the	office	and	up	to	two	days	from	home.	The	majority	of	Citi	employees	have	been	designated	as	hybrid.	Remote	roles	may	be	performed	100%	from	outside	the	office	location.	Resident	roles	are	jobs	that	cannot	be	performed	remotely,	such	as	tellers	in	our	branches	and	data	center	employees.In	2022,	we	will	roll	out	the	future	work	model	and	survey	employees	throughout	the	early	phases,	using	data	to	understand	what	is	working	—	and	what	isn’t	—	so	we	can	adapt	where	we	need	to.	To	support	hybrid	and	remote	working,	we	have	been	introducing	enhanced	technology	and	tools	that	enable	us	to	be	more	connected	and	collaborative,	no	matter	where	we	work.		
Diversity,	Equity	&	InclusionOur workforce of more than 220,000 colleagues around the globe reflects the diverse backgrounds and perspectives of our clients and customers. This is why we ensure equity and inclusion are embedded in everything that we do. Across	the	firm,	there	is	tremendous	momentum	to	build	on	our	efforts	to	create	a	more	diverse,	equitable	and	inclusive	culture	—	from	our	pay	equity	work	to	our	representation	goals	to	our	diverse	interview	panels	and	candidate	slates	to	our	engagement	with	Historically	Black	Colleges	and	Universities	(HBCUs).	We	believe	in	setting	clear	goals	to	measure	our	progress	and	holding	ourselves	accountable	to	building	a	company	where	the	best	talent	wants	to	work	and	where	people	of	all	races,	gender,	sexual	orientation,	disability	status	veteran	status	or	ethnicity	can	reach	their	full	potential.Our	approach	to	diversity,	equity	and	inclusion	(DEI)	isn’t	limited	to	broadening	the	representation	of	those	working	within	the	top	levels	of	our	own	firm	and	creating	a	more	inclusive	environment.	We	also	look	at	diversity	holistically,	thinking	of	ways	to	widen	our	impact	for	our	suppliers,	clients,	customers	and	communities	we	serve.	Learn	about	our	Action for Racial Equity	plan	to	help	close	the	racial	wealth	gap	and	increase	economic	mobility	in	the	United	States. Pay EquityWe	continue	to	disclose	our	adjusted	and	unadjusted	(or	“raw”)	pay	gaps	for	both	women	and	U.S.	minorities	to	hold	ourselves	accountable	for	making	progress.	The	adjusted	pay	gap	is	a	true	measure	of	pay	equity,	or	“like	for	like,”	that	compares	the	compensation	of	women	to	men	and	U.S.	minorities	to	non-minorities	when	adjusting	for	factors	such	as	job	function,	title/level	and	geography.	The	raw	gap	measures	the	difference	in	median	compensation	when	we	don’t	adjust	for	any	of	the	aforementioned	factors.The	existence	of	our	raw	pay	gap	reflects	a	need	to	increase	representation	of	women	and	U.S.	minorities	in	senior	and	higherpaying	roles.	Our	latest	results,	released	in	early	2022,	found	that,	on	an	adjusted	basis,	women	globally	are	paid	on	average	more	than	99%	of	what	men	are	paid	at	Citi,	and	that	there	was	no	statistically	significant	difference	in	adjusted	compensation	for	U.S.	minorities	and	non-minorities.	Following	the	review,	appropriate	pay	adjustments	were	made	as	part	of	Citi’s	2021	compensation	cycle.Citi’s	2021	raw	gap	analysis	showed	that	the	median	pay	for	women	globally	is	74%	of	the	median	for	men,	similar	to	2020	and	up	from	73%	in	2019	and	71%	in	2018;	the	median	pay	for	U.S.	minorities	was	more	than	96%	of	the	median	for	non-minorities,	which	is	up	from	just	under	94%	in	2020,	94%	in	2019	and	93%	in	2018.	Continuing	to	reduce	our	raw	pay	gap	requires	that	we	increase	representation	of	women	and	U.S.	minorities	in	senior	roles	across	the	firm.	These	pay	equity	reviews	represent	a	“moment	in	time”	snapshot	of	our	employee	base,	which	is	constantly	changing	as	people	come	in	and	out	of	the	firm,	as	colleagues	are	promoted	and	as	market	dynamics	change.	We’re	continuing	to	innovate	how	we	recruit	and	develop	talent	and	to	use	data	more	effectively	to	help	us	increase	diversity	at	more	senior	levels	at	Citi.	Our	philosophy	is	that	every	member	of	Citi’s	team	is	responsible	for	progress	in	making	Citi	an	even	more	inclusive	and	equitable	workplace.	Citi	collaborated	with	The	Female	Quotient,	a	women-owned	business	dedicated	to	advancing	equality	in	the	workplace,	to	develop	a	free	digital	tool	that	provides	companies	with	a	snapshot	of	their	raw	pay	gap.	We	view	it	as	a	way	to	further	equity	across	all	types	of	companies	and	see	it	as	a	concrete	measure	to	increase	diversity	more	broadly.	For	more	information,	visit	The	Female	Quotient’s	Advancing	Equality	CalculatorTM.	Representation GoalsIn	2018,	we	set	aspirational	representation	goals	to	increase	women	leadership	globally	and	Black	leadership	in	the	United	States	at	the	firm	by	the	end	of	2021.	We	are	pleased	to	share	that	Citi	exceeded	these	goals.	Globally,	we	increased	representation	at	the	Assistant	Vice	President	to	Managing	Director	levels	for	women	to	40.6%	(up	from	37%	in	2018),	and	in	the	United	States	we	increased	Black	representation	for	those	same	job	levels	to	8.1%	(up	from	6%	in	2018).	Additionally,	when	we	include	colleagues	in	the	United	States	who	self-identify	as	two	or	more	races,	Black	representation	at	the	same	job	levels	increased	to	9.1%.Our	commitment	doesn’t	stop	here,	and	we	recognize	there’s	still	work	to	do	to	build	a	more	diverse,	equitable	and	inclusive	firm.	We	will	build	and	expand	on	our	representation	goals	in	the	future	and	will	continue	to	be	transparent	while	holding	ourselves	accountable.	Diversity,	equity	and	inclusion	factors,	including	the	representation	of	women	and	racial/ethnic	minorities,	continue	to	be	included	in	senior	executives’	scorecards.	Learn	more	in	the	ESG	at	Citi	section.	Pipeline	analyses	help	us	assess	the	availability	and	flow	of	diverse	talent	at	Citi	and	how	we	can	achieve	better	representation	among	women	and	racial/ethnic	minorities.	Such	analyses	also	play	an	important	role	in	succession	planning	at	Citi,	ensuring	that	we	have	diversity	of	employees	who	are	ready	for	promotion	now,	and	that	we	have	appropriate	development	plans	for	those	who	would	be	ready	for	promotion	in	several	years.	Intentionality	in	talent	development	is	essential	if	we’re	going	to	elevate	more	women	and	racial/ethnic	minorities	to	high-level	positions	at	Citi	—	and	across	our	industry	as	a	whole.	According	to	McKinsey	&	Company,	there’s	a	strong	business	case	for	gender	and	racial	diversity	in	corporate	leadership,	with	the	most	diverse	companies	outperforming	their	peers	on	profitability.	A	report	issued	by	McKinsey1	in	2020	found	that	companies	in	the	top	quartile	for	gender	diversity	on	executive	teams	were	25%	more	likely	to	have	above-average	profitability	than	companies	in	the	fourth	quartile.	That’s	up	from	21%	in	2017	and	15%	in	2014.	Our	representation	goals,	as	well	as	other	work	we	are	doing	around	gender	equality	in	the	workplace,	directly	contribute	to	SDG 5	in	support	of	gender equality and empowering all women and girls.	Specifically,	we	are	enabling	progress	toward	target 5.5,	which	aims	to	ensure women’s full and effective participation and equal opportunities for leadership at all levels of decision-making in political, economic and public life.	 SDG Goal 5: Gender Equality 	Read	how	we’re	supporting	minority-		and	women-owned	businesses	in	our	supply	chain.
1.	McKinsey	&	Company,	“Diversity	Wins:	How	Inclusion	Matters”	May	2020.		A Roadmap for Black EquityIn November 2021, we announced our participation in the Management Leadership for Tomorrow (MLT) Black Equity at Work Certification — a first-of-its-kind standard and roadmap for employers that want to achieve Black equity internally while supporting Black equity in society. Citi was the first major Wall Street bank to sign on. Our participation complements our Action for Racial Equity efforts, including our commitment to conduct a third-party racial equity audit. (Learn more in the Equitable and Resilient Communities section.) MLT’s unique accreditation program calls on corporations to take a stand for Black equity and provides a critical resource for employers to make progress toward their Black equity goals. Through our participation in this program, Citi will receive MLT’s expertise, counsel and feedback on our internal Black equity initiatives and practices, including how we can increase Black representation, drive equal pay and invest in Black equity causes. The validation process will help Citi develop a robust, comprehensive plan that will enable us to achieve a Black Equity at Work Certification in one to three years.DIVERSITY AT THE EXECUTIVE LEVELGender equity is something we demonstrate from the very top of our organization. Jane Fraser is our first woman CEO — and was the first woman to lead a major Wall Street bank. Based on existing self-identification data, five (29%) of our 17-person Executive Management Team are women and six (35%) are racially/ethnically diverse. As of April 25, 2022, eight (53%) of the 15 members of our Board of Directors are women and three (20%) are racial/ethnic minorities. Citi was among the first financial services firms  to achieve gender parity on  its Board.
Recruit, Retain and PromoteWe	are	committed	to	continue	building	a	team	that	is	inclusive	and	representative	of	our	customers	and	clients.	To	make	progress,	we	have	been	evolving	the	way	we	bring	new	colleagues	into	Citi,	including	accelerating	the	use	of	diverse	slates	in	our	recruiting	and	deepening	our	capabilities	to	measure	our	success.In	2021,	we	expanded	the	use	of	diverse	slates	in	our	recruiting	to	have	at	least	two	women	and/or	U.S.	minorities	in	our	interviews	for	U.S.	hires	and	at	least	two	women	in	our	interviews	for	global	hires.	These	include	candidates	at	various	senior	levels,	from	Assistant	Vice	President	to	Managing	Director.	As	of	December,	nearly	75%	of	roles	that	were	posted	globally	included	a	diverse	slate	of	candidates	with	at	least	two	women	and/or	two	U.S.	minorities.	In	2021,	we	launched	a	Diversity	Sourcing	team	in	the	United	States	to	consistently	identify	diverse	talent	in	the	marketplace	and	accelerate	our	hiring	of	diverse	talent.			We	have	expanded	engagement	with	external	partners,	including	diversity	professional	organizations.	These	relationships	have	enhanced	our	ability	to	attract	and	hire	mid-	to	senior-level	talent	demonstrating	Citi’s	inclusive	culture.	CUPID BY THE NUMBERSThe Citi® University Partnerships in Innovation & Discovery (CUPID) Program embeds students from top universities in innovation activities across Citi. CUPID students — many of them underrepresented minorities — gain exposure to various aspects of our business and help us develop a robust, diverse pipeline of talent. Since we launched CUPID in 2017, we have:• Engaged 3,600+ students and early career professionals• Hired 202 CUPID participants• Hired 43 HBCU students • Worked with 90 colleges and universities, including 38 HBCUs• Hosted 40 events, such as hackathons, competitions and symposiumsCampus Recruiting 	42	first-	and	second-year	students	(58%	first	years	and	32%	sophomores)	Our	campus	recruiting	program	is	another	from	15	HBCUs	for	an	introductory,	important	way	for	us	to	diversify	our	virtual	experience	focused	on	helping	employee	base,	and	we	have	a	robust	them	understand	financial	services,	pipeline	of	talent	from	HBCUs	and	other	gain	technical	skills	and	kick	off	the	leading	universities.	career-planning	process.	While	we	• Our	Citi® University Partnerships 	would	like	the	students	to	consider	in Innovation & Discovery (CUPID) 	the	possibility	of	a	future	with	Citi,	our	Program	enables	us	to	accelerate	inno-	primary	goal	is	to	provide	them	with	vation	projects	across	Citi	by	engaging	helpful	tools	on	their	path	to	profesdiverse	students	and	developing	a	sional	success,	without	regard	for	robust,	diverse	pipeline	of	talent	from	industry	or	profession.	leading	universities	(see	callout	above).	•	Our	Early Insights Programs	for	•	In	2021,	we	held	our	third	annual	college	students	in	their	first	and	MILITARY OFFICER LEADERSHIP PROGRAM 	firm.	These	programs	provide	early	                                                                                    exposure	to,	and	education	around,	Our Military Officer Leadership Program (MOLP) focuses on recruiting, 	Citi’s	businesses,	technical	training,	developing, training and preparing transitioning service members for mid- to 	mentorship	and	culture. senior-level leadership roles at Citi. Over a two-year time period, candidates •	Our	Freshman Discovery Day	is	a	rotate three times, giving them a peer network of mentorship and support and a path to a successful career at Citi. “As a former combat veteran, with 	two-day	exploratory	program	that	no direct experience in the financial industry, the MOLP was a great opportu-	helps	educate	underrepresented	nity,” said Rob Carter, a graduate of the program who has been with Citi for 	minority	college	freshmen	about	the	about five years. “The exposure to different businesses allowed me to find 	various	roles	in	financial	services.an area within the firm that leveraged the skills I developed during my time in the Army,” says Carter, Senior Vice President in Human Resources and one of the more than 2,400 U.S. employees who have disclosed their veteran status to us.HBCU Innovation and Leadership 	second	years	of	undergraduate	studies	Symposium,	which	brought	together	are	focused	on	identifying,	mentoring	and	hiring	top	diverse	talent	for	summer	analyst	programs	across	the	CITI INTRODUCTION  TO FINANCEMore than 1,000 people attended a virtual event in August geared toward mid- to senior-level Black talent. Our CFO Mark Mason and Chief Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Officer Erika Irish Brown discussed their respective careers in finance. Several participants in the event interviewed for positions across the team. • Our	Early Identification Program	focuses	on	mentorship,	interview		preparation	and	best-in-class	training		to	identify	diverse	talent	for	our		summer	analyst	programs	over	a		five-week	period. • Sophomore Leadership Program	provides	hands-on	work	experience,	mentorship,	peer	networking	and	necessary	skills	over	a	10-week	summer	internship,	to	provide	a	pipeline	into	our	full-time	analyst	programs.We	continue	to	partner	with	Jopwell,	MLT,	SEO	and	WayUp,	U.S.-based	recruiting	platforms	that	attract	diverse	students,	enabling	our	recruiters	to	communicate	and	engage	with	students	to	promote	job	opportunities.	We	were	also	honored	to	receive	the	Diversity,	Equity	and	Inclusion	Award	and	received	an	Honorable	Mention	for	Recruiting	Excellence	from	the	National	Association	of	Colleges	and	Employers.Developing Diverse Talent  Hiring,	promoting	and	retaining	more	women	and	racial/ethnic	minorities	in	senior,	high-paying	roles	is	critical	to	our	success	—	and	key	to	helping	solve	the	two-pronged	issue	of	representation	and	pay	equity.	Career	development	is	one	of	our	top	priorities,	and	we	promote	from	within	to	continue	developing	our	existing	Representation in Our Analyst and  Associate ProgramsASPIRATIONAL GOAL: 50% women globally for our analyst and associate programs	ACHIEVED	ACHIEVED	52%	52%	2021	2019	2021 Women representation in full-time 	Women representation in the summer analyst and associate roles	analyst and associate programsASPIRATIONAL GOAL: 30% Black and Hispanic/Latino in the United States for our analyst and associate programsACHIEVED	29%	32%	2021	2019	2021Black and Hispanic/Latino  	Black and Hispanic/Latino representation in full-time  	representation in the summer analyst and associate roles	analyst and associate programsCITI ON THE VINEYARD RECRUITMENTtalent.	In	2021,	41% of open positions at Citi were filled with internal candidates.		“Owning	My	Success”	(OMS),	for	example,	is	a	group	coaching	program	for	Black	colleagues	that	provides	exposure	to	Citi’s	senior	leadership	and	supports	professional	and	personal	development.	More	than	700	Black	colleagues	have	participated	in	OMS	since	the	program	began	in	2018.	Over	the	course	of	several	months,	participants	join	group	coaching	circles,	led	by	an	external	executive	coach	and	a	senior	leader	at	Citi.	Managers	of	the	participants	also	take	part	in	group	coaching	to	better	understand	the	experience	of	Black	colleagues	in	the	workplace.	Following a successful recruitment event in 2019, Citi held a second recruitment event on Martha’s Vineyard in Massachusetts for Black students to network with industry professionals and learn about potential career paths in financial services. In total, 20+ college students and 12 high school students attended the August 2021 event. Two of the college students were selected for our Early ID Leadership Program, and we’re inviting the high school students to return to future programming. Citi	Personal	Banking	&	Wealth	Management	and	our	Risk	and	Controls	group	each	piloted	advocacy	programs	for	underrepresented	talent	in	2021,	pairing	participants	with	senior	leaders	to	offer	career	advice	and	support.	Black	Leaders	for	Tomorrow,	an	initiative	within	the	Institutional	Clients	Group,	also	offers	an	Advocacy	program	for	Black	directors.	More	than	600	Black	employees	each	year	participate	in	one	of	five	programs	offered	through	Black	Leaders	for	Tomorrow.We	also	launched	the	Black	Managing	Director	Engagement	initiative,	a	quarterly	small	group	gathering	of	Executive	Management	Team	members	and	Black	Managing	Directors	who	get	to	know	each	other,	share	ideas	on	ways	to	enhance	Citi’s	strategy	and	discuss	opportunities	for	personal	and	professional	growth.	Our	Role-Based	Assessment	Program,	meanwhile,	focuses	on	building	a	robust	succession	plan	for	our	Black	and	women	leaders.	The	career	development	program	includes	executive	assessment	and	coaching.	In	2021,	31	high-performing	Black	and	women	Managing	Directors	and	Directors	were	selected	for	the	program.	We	provide	a	range	of	internal	development	and	rotational	programs	for	leaders	at	all	levels,	and	we	continued	to	evolve	our	learning	programs	to	meet	new	needs.	Our	Citi	Women’s	Leadership	Development	Program	was	held	remotely	in	2021,	bringing	together	a	group	of	Senior	Vice	Presidents	and	Directors	from	around	the	world	to	network	and	develop	leadership	skills.In	Latin	America,	our	Women’s	Virtual	Development	Program	continues	to	be	one	of	our	most	valued	in	the	region,	with	more	than	1,600	participants	in	2021.	Across	Asia	Pacific,	780	participants	joined	one	of	four	programs	supporting	women	as	they	transition	to	more	senior	roles.	And	in	Europe,	for	our	“reverse	mentoring”	program,	we	paired	senior	leaders	from	the	region	with	The Black Women at Citi Power Panel, presented by Black Women at Citi and Citi Inspires, was a successful hybrid event in 2021, with 3,300 colleagues tuning in. A panel of senior Black women at the firm discussed mental health, work/life balance, self-advocacy, building community, sponsorship and career development. Following the panel, our Chief Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Officer and Global Head of Talent, Erika Irish Brown, hosted a fireside chat with Grammy-award winner Gladys Knight. PARTNERSHIP WITH THE EXECUTIVE LEADERSHIP COUNCIL junior	mentors	from	the	LGBTQ+	community.	The	goal	of	the	program,	which	was	subsequently	rolled	out	in	Latin	America,	Asia	Pacific	and	the	United	States,	was	to	educate	the	mentees	about	the	lived	experience	of	their	LGBTQ+	colleagues.To	better	support	our	colleagues	with	disabilities,	we	made	enhancements	to	our	tools	and	resources	to	build	a	more	inclusive	workplace,	including	a	strong	team	of	doctors,	digital	accessibility	experts	and	accommodations	specialists.	The	Global	Consumer	Technology	team	launched	a	partnership	with	Neurodiverse	Solutions	(formerly	Autism2Work),	and	in	May	2021,	the	team	added	five	contractors	who	have	autism	spectrum	disorder,	or	ASD,	to	the	Global	Consumer	Bank	ATM	team	based	in	our	Florence,	Kentucky,	ATM	Lab.	After	seeing	such	strong	results	in	just	six	months,	the	Neurodiverse	Solutions	program	has	expanded	across	Citi	with	12	contractors	and	plans	to	grow	the	team	to	50	contractors	by	the	end	of	2022.	Citi	recently	began	a	partnership	with	Disability:IN,	a	global	nonprofit	resource	for	disability	inclusion.	Disability:IN	partners	with	over	400	companies	worldwide	with	the	vision	to	create	an	inclusive	global	economy	where	people	with	disabilities	participate	fully	and	meaningfully.We invest in career development and planning for diverse talent through mentorship, networking, rotational programs and partnerships, such as our longstanding relationship with The Executive Leadership Council (ELC). In 2021, we signed a million-dollar, multiyear agreement with ELC to enhance our investment in Black leadership and establish a cohesive development journey and continuum for Citi’s Black leaders. Through this partnership, Citi plans to help develop 850 mid- to senior-level employees over three years. The program is focused on Black colleagues at the Assistant Vice President through Managing Director levels who are tapped for further development at Citi. The intent is to invest in their continued professional growth and mobility by providing personalized coaching and greater exposure to senior-level leaders.


Contents 	ESG at Citi 	Sustainable Finance 	Sustainable Progress 	Equitable & Resilient Communities 	Talent&DEI 	Risk Management & Responsible Business 	Appendices
InclusionInclusive	practices	and	policies	lead	to	improved	business	performance	and	a	company	culture	where	employees	feel	welcome,	safe	and	respected,	and	where	they	can	focus	on	their	work	without	fear	of	prejudice	or	discrimination.	We	work	hard	to	establish	a	strong	DEI	foundation	for	the	company	at	all	levels,	creating	paths	for	the	next	generation	of	leaders	across	every	dimension	of	diversity.We	want	all	of	our	colleagues	to	feel	empowered	to	share	all	aspects	of	their	identity	so	that	we	may	continue	to	honor	what	makes	them	diverse	and	unique	while	also	strengthening	a	culture	that	values	and	promotes	diverse	perspectives.	Core	to	our	data-driven	approach	is	gaining	better	understanding	of	how	our	employees	self-identify	so	that	we	can	better	meet	their	needs.	In	2021	we	launched	a	global	Self-ID	campaign	to	nearly	190,000	employees	(90%	of	our	workforce),	who	were	invited	to	self-identify	their	race	and	ethnicity,	gender	identities,	sexual	orientation,	disability	status	and	military	status,	as	permissible	by	local	laws	and	regulations	in	the	46	countries	we	survey.	For	2021,	we	expanded	the	sexual	orientation	dimension	from	15	to	34	countries	and	the	race	and	ethnicity	dimension	from	18	to	31	countries.	Additionally,	we	continued	to	encourage	the	reporting	of	multiple	races/ ethnicities	for	those	employees	who	selfidentify	as	such	by	enabling	the	selection	of	specific	races/ethnicities.	We	achieved	a	response	rate	of	nearly	100%	for	global	gender	and	U.S.	race/ethnicity.See	our	employment	data	for	more	information	about	our	workforce	composition.
Contents 	ESG at Citi 	Sustainable Finance 	Sustainable Progress 	Equitable & Resilient Communities 	Talent&DEI 	Risk Management & Responsible Business 	AppendicesOur Employee Networks in Action: 2021Our Employee Network chapters serve as local representatives of our Affinities. Initiated and led by colleagues at our work sites, the Networks offer professional development, mentoring, networking and community engagement opportunities to members and colleagues. Consistent with our inclusive culture, Employee Network chapters are open to all Citi employees, regardless of whether they identify with a particular Affinity. Each of our nine Affinities is co-led by a member of our CEO’s leadership team. The number of our global Employee Network chapters increased from 198 in 2020 to 226 in 2021, while the total number of unique members in the groups increased from 21,420 to 26,950 globally. The following are some examples of our colleagues’ experiences from participating in our Affinities.
Asian HeritageSTELLA YU, TORONTO SENIOR VICE PRESIDENT, HUMAN RESOURCES“I always feel my intersectionality being a woman, an Asian and an immigrant is celebrated at Citi, and my perspectives are valued by my co-workers. I received overwhelming support from our senior leaders when I first approached them with the idea to initiate an Asian Heritage Network in Canada. Working remotely and separated from families during the pandemic have been very challenging for many in the Asian communities, who experienced or witnessed race-based abuse, hate and even violence. Citi’s Affinity networks have created a safe space for us to share emotions and offer support to each other. Being able to support my community at work adds a sense of purpose and belonging for me.” Black HeritageKATRINA GERALD, CHARLOTTE, N.C. SENIOR VICE PRESIDENT, PERSONAL  BANKING & WEALTH MANAGEMENT“In addition to learning even more about my own culture as a part of the Black Heritage Network, I have also been able to expand my network, increase my exposure to Citi leaders and focus on career development through many of the lessons learned from the network’s events and sessions. This is also true regarding all of the employee networks sponsored by Citi. Citi truly exemplifies a diverse, equitable and inclusive culture through the Employee Network program and through the act of investing in cultures and communities within and beyond our Citi walls.”Citi Salutes®GRAHAM LEWIS, NEW YORK ASSISTANT VICE PRESIDENT,  INSTITUTIONAL CLIENTS GROUP“A veteran Citi employee, who is now my mentor, reached out to me when I was in college and helped me get my foot in the door at Citi. That kindness toward veterans really resonated with me, and I immediately began getting involved with Citi Salutes and North America Service Initiative groups. I started off small by taking on volunteer responsibilities such as our USO Bike Build and Thank You Card events, and with each new opportunity I was able to meet so many unique people who also wanted to help veterans. I am proud to serve as the Citi Salutes New York Chapter co-chair and always look forward to working with our other New York-based networks.” Contents 	ESG at Citi 	Sustainable Finance 	Sustainable Progress 	Equitable & Resilient Communities 	Talent&DEI 	Risk Management & Responsible Business 	AppendicesOur Employee Networks in Action: 2021 (continued)Citi WomenLU SHI, CHINA MANAGING DIRECTOR, RISK“Citi Women Networks in Asia had a momentous year with many key initiatives and successful program launches. For example, here in China we launched a maternity buddy program that received overwhelmingly positive reviews from those who participated. We also partnered with other networks to lead November Gratitude Month, where we sent out 8,000 thank you cards to employees and staff, building on our already strong sense of community and showcasing our leadership principle of ‘We Succeed Together.’ Citi Women has brought tremendous value to my own experience and to Citi overall by creating an inclusive culture for women to thrive.” Families MatterLUCIANA ZONZINI, BRAZIL MANAGING DIRECTOR,  BANKING, CAPITAL,  MARKETS AND ADVISORY “The Networks have the incredible mission to not only act upon the specific themes of each of the diversity groups, but also to expand the overall engagement and awareness among our population — creating an environment for empathy, connection and ‘call to action.’ In that sense, Families Matter provides us the amazing opportunity to work across Affinities: learning, supporting and acting together, especially in a moment when work, home and families are more intertwined than ever before. Understanding the realities and particularities of our diverse team and acting together with other Affinities allows us to support our Citi family.”DisabilityPATRICK MORAN, UNITED KINGDOM DIRECTOR, OPERATIONS TECHNOLOGY  “I was originally approached to join London Disability Network in 2006 and found a fantastic group of folks looking to ensure that anyone with a disability, injury or illness felt that they had a voice. I went on to serve as co-chair for the London Disability Network on two occasions, where I believe we enhanced representation, engaged with senior management and weaved Inclusion into the business conversation. I am a firm believer that as an employee I need to set an example on how, with the right level of support from my amazing managers over the years, I was able to grow my career and begin to ask not what Citi can do for me, but what can I do for Citi and the disability community. I have been working with various groups and technology experts to raise the understanding on how assistive technology enables inclusion. By being myself, I have allowed my managers to be their very best for me, and together we can work on what we need to do to support our clients.”  GenerationsNUR’I LIM, MALAYSIA VICE PRESIDENT, INDEPENDENT COMPLIANCE RISK MANAGEMENT“I have been with the firm for almost a decade, and I am really proud of how we have stepped up in recent years to strategize on diversity, equity and inclusion efforts to create an inclusive culture at Citi. Our colleagues who participated in Network initiatives continuously share feedback that they experience great value and learnings from our content. I am especially fond of sessions where safe spaces are created to speak up. Inviting people to talk about topics relating to diversity, equity and inclusion increases awareness so we can break down barriers and enable people to be comfortable with certain topics. This helps create an understanding of the role we can all play in supporting one another.”



Contents 	ESG at Citi 	Sustainable Finance 	Sustainable Progress 	Equitable & Resilient Communities 	Talent&DEI 	Risk Management & Responsible Business 	AppendicesUsing	Our	Corporate	Voice		to	Drive	Change
At Citi, we believe we can use our power as a global bank to effect social change, and we continue to take a stand on a wide range of issues, such as racial and pay equity, immigration, gun violence and climate change. We also believe it’s important to speak up and speak out on issues that impact our colleagues.For	example,	in	the	United	States	in	2021,	there	was	an	alarming	rise	in	bills	proposed	at	the	state	level	that	would	single	out	LGBTQ+	individuals	for	exclusion	or	differential	treatment.	Legislation	promoting	discrimination	could	negatively	impact	our	colleagues	and	their	families,	as	well	as	our	clients,	customers	and	our	business.	In	May,	Citi	signed	the	Human	Rights	Campaign’s	Business	Statement	Opposing	Anti-LGBTQ+	State	Legislation,	reiterating	our	belief	that	all	people	have	a	fundamental	right	to	equality	and	our	opposition	to	harmful	legislation	aimed	at	restricting	the	access	of	LGBTQ+	people	in	society.		Citi	has	a	long	history	of	outspoken	advocacy	for	the	LGBTQ+	community.	In	2020,	Citi	became	the	first	major	bank	to	provide	transgender	and	nonbinary	customers	with	the	ability	to	have	account	profiles	and	credit	cards	that	match	their	chosen	first	name.	Since	the	initial	launch,	more	than	18,000	consumers	have	updated	their	Citi	U.S.	branded	credit	cards	with	their	chosen	name.	Learn	more	in	the	Serving	Our	Customers	and	Clients	Responsibly	section.When	members	of	the	Asian	American	and	Pacific	Islander	(AAPI)	community	endured	rising	instances	of	violence	in	response	to	the	pandemic,	our	Executive	MARKING HOLIDAYS OF SIGNIFICANCEStarting in 2022, we have a new paid holiday for U.S. employees: Juneteenth Day, a federal holiday that marks the end of slavery. We also had the opportunity to be more inclusive and acknowledge Indigenous Peoples Day in addition to Columbus Day. In 2020, Citi implemented one additional floating holiday called Heritage Day, which employees can take at any time to honor a day of personal signficance.Management	Team	condemned	the	xenophobia	while	voicing	support	for	our	AAPI	For 17 consecutive years, Citi colleagues	and	the	broader	community.	has received a perfect score on We	also	held	internal	listening	sessions	the Human Rights Campaign Foundation’s Corporate Equality and	hosted	community	forums	to	show	our	Index, a national survey that support	for	our	employees.	Watch	a	public	benchmarks corporate policies service	message	we	produced.	We	hosted	and practices for LGBTQ+ a	“Hollaback	Bystander	Intervention”	workplace quality.training,	which	is	designed	to	provide	colleagues	with	practical	tactics	on	how	to	intervene	in	a	safe	way	if	they	witness	an	incident	in	public.	In	2021,	we	hosted	three	sessions,	and	more	than	500	colleagues	joined	the	training.	We	plan	to	host	additional	sessions	in	2022.We	also	expanded	our	partnership	with	Ascend,	a	non-profit	organization	focused	on	professional	development	of	the	AAPI	community,	and	sponsored	the	Ascend	National	Convention	week,	which	more	than	200	colleagues	attended.			Furthermore,	Citi	was	one	of	many	U.S.	businesses	that	condemned	efforts	in	2021	to	restrict	voting	access	in	the	state	of	Georgia.	We	opposed	voting	restriction	laws	because	we	believed	it	would	“undermine	the	ability	of	Americans	to	avail	themselves	of	this	fundamental	right.”
Fair Employment PracticesWe strive to maintain an environment in which development opportunities are widely available, where people are hired and advanced on their merits and where our employees treat each other with respect. We are fully committed to equal employment opportunities, fair employment practices and nondiscrimination. For more information, see the Human Rights section of this report, our Code of Conduct and our website for policies around fair employment and compensation. More information can also be found in the GRI Index of this report.Contents 	ESG at Citi 	Sustainable Finance 	Sustainable Progress 	Equitable & Resilient Communities 	Talent&DEI 	Risk Management & Responsible Business 	Appendices

Contents 	ESG at Citi 	Sustainable Finance 	Sustainable Progress 	Equitable & Resilient Communities 	Talent&DEI 	Risk Management & Responsible Business 	AppendicesCiti 2021 Consolidated U.S. Employer Information Report (EEO-1)  Table AAdvocacy Statement and Multiple Identity BreakdownsWhile certain regulatory reports such as our EEO-1 filings will continue to require that each Citi colleague be designated as shown in Table A, our internal tracking has evolved to appropriately capture the reality of who our people are, as detailed on the following page in Table B.	Native 	American Black or 	Hispanic 	Hawaiian 	Indian or 	Multi-Job Categories	Gender	White	African 	Asian	or Latino	or Pacific 	Alaskan 	RacialAmerican	Islander	NativeTotalExecutive/Senior Officials and ManagersMaleFemaleSubtotal661249307945900013316000101117First/Mid Officials  and ManagersMaleFemaleSubtotal8868171,7034,191 2,9047,095346 43177787151,9058722,777141024515710812,499ProfessionalsMaleFemaleSubtotal1,8921,8823,7746,9085,87012,7781,2301,4652,6951919383,9982,9526,95033 2053 141 18032126,609TechniciansMaleFemaleSubtotal47277453 66119251035000131427000213258Sales WorkersMaleFemaleSubtotal1,118 1,2082,3262,556 1,2573,813 271 3245951014248201,0191,8398111958 441028,718Administrative Support WorkersMaleFemaleSubtotal1,2263,1604,3862,7297,2099,9386882,5133,2011440543287511,0792466906519826319,011Craft WorkersMaleFemaleSubtotal3033030000000000000006OperativesMaleFemaleSubtotal0002460000000000000006Laborers and HelpersMaleFemaleSubtotal0000000000000000000000Service WorkersMaleFemaleSubtotal2020221120000000000006TotalMaleFemaleSubtotal5,1807,10012,28016,4912,565 4,7497,31451801317,0775,61112,688 79 107186 318 48079867,230Note:	For	our	EEO-1	U.S.	headcount,	regulatory	logic	is	applied	as	specified	and	enforced	by	the	U.S.	Department	of	Labor’s	Equal	Employment	Opportunity	Commission	(EEOC).
	Sustainable Finance 	Sustainable Progress 	Equitable & Resilient Communities 	Talent&DEI 	Risk Management & Responsible Business Multiple Identity Breakdowns  Table BRace/EthnicityTotal Hispanic or LatinoHispanic/ LatinoWhiteBlack or African AmericanNative Hawaiian or Pacific IslanderAsianAmerican Indian or Alaskan NativeHispanic or Latino6,2145,9795,14755455146312Race/EthnicityHispanic or Latino in Combination with Other Race(s)White and Other Race(s)Black or African American and Other Race(s)Native Hawaiian or Pacific Islander and Other Race(s)Asian and Other Race(s)American Indian or Alaskan Native and Other Race(s)Multi-Racial  (or two or more races)5,97956231966318174Note:	For	our	EEO-1	U.S.	headcount,	regulatory	logic	is	applied	as	specified	and	enforced	by	the	U.S.	Department	of	Labor’s	Equal	Employment	Opportunity	Commission	(EEOC).
In This Section	104	Our	Transformation	110	Risk	Management	121	Serving	Our	Customers	and	Clients	Responsibly	125	Human	Rights	134	Responsible	SourcingOur	Transformation
Through our transformation we are working to modernize and simplify the bank so that we can better manage risk, improve our service to customers and clients and make Citi an easier place to work. Through the modernization of our data infrastructure and operations, and by evolving our culture, we are strengthening our safety and soundness as a bank and improving our ability to compete in the digital age.Transforming Our Risk and Control EnvironmentIn	October	2020,	the	Federal	Reserve	Board	and	the	Office	of	the	Comptroller	of	the	Currency	issued	consent	orders	to	Citi	requiring	improvements	in	the	way	we	manage	enterprise-wide	risk,	compliance,	data	and	internal	controls.	This,	combined	with	an	increasingly	competitive	landscape	and	our	clients’	acceleration	toward	digital	solutions	through	the	pandemic,	became	the	catalyst	for	Citi’s	transformation	strategy.	Citi	has	been	in	operation	for	more	than	200	years.	But	our	transformation	isn’t	about	looking	back;	it’s	about	looking	ahead,	to	become	an	even	stronger	bank	for	all	our	stakeholders.	This	transformation	is	an	interconnected,	enterprise-wide	effort.	In	addition	to	remediating	issues,	we	are	addressing	root	causes,	simplifying	the	way	we	operate	and	doing	so	more	effectively.	We	are	redesigning	our	key	processes	from	end	to	end,	automating	them	and	ensuring	we	have	the	proper	controls	in	place	while	eliminating	complexity.	OUR DATA GOVERNANCE PROGRAM Data quality is one of the areas of focus for our transformation. To lead this effort, we have established a Data Governance Program to elevate our data governance and to help drive necessary improvements to our technology and processes. Our goal is to make it easier to locate, collect and use the information our colleagues need to do their jobs and mitigate risk.In 2021, we rewrote our Citi Data Governance Policy (which governs how we manage and use our data) to be more concise, provide greater clarity and embed accountability across the firm. The policy clarifies and simplifies the way we govern data, with a focus on achieving access to trusted, high-quality data in a controlled way.Governance and LeadershipPutting	the	right	teams	and	governance	in	place	is	critical	to	creating	consistency	in	our	approach	across	the	firm	and	driving	the	ultimate	success	of	our	transformation.Our	Transformation	Steering	Committee,	chaired	by	our	CEO,	sets	the	overall	direction	for	our	transformation	efforts	and	communicates	progress	to	our	Board	of	Directors,	as	well	as	seeks	input	and	feedback	from	the	Board.	In	addition,	one	or	more	members	of	our	Executive	Management	Team	lead	program	groups	that	are	central	to	our	transformation.	To	encourage	enterprise-wide	engagement,	each	of	these	groups	includes	representation	from	across	our	businesses	and	functions.	The	executives	in	charge	of	these	programs	are	held	accountable	for	their	group’s	success,	and	their	compensation	is	linked	to	achieving	results.Senior	leaders	are	setting	the	tone	for	their	teams,	showing	a	high	level	of	engagement	with,	and	commitment	to,	our	transformation	activities.	
Our Path to TransformationTo	establish	a	baseline	for	our	transformation	strategy,	we	conducted	a	gap	analysis	exercise,	started	in	2020	and	completed	in	2021,	to	review	the	issues	raised	in	the	consent	orders	and	define	the	gap	between	where	we	were	and	where	we	need	to	be.	Following	the	gap	analysis,	we	designed	a	roadmap	to	get	us	to	our	target	state.	The	roadmap	comprises	several	distinct	areas	that	feed	into	Citi’s	integrated	vision	of	transformation	for	our	company.	One	of	the	first	actions	we	undertook	in	2021	was	to	develop	and	roll	out	a	new	Enterprise	Risk	Management	Framework	to	assess	risk	across	our	enterprise.	The	integrated	approach	of	the	framework	seeks	to	drive	consistency	across	key	areas	of	risk,	strengthening	the	way	the	firm	identifies,	measures	and	monitors	risk	so	that	we	can	implement	appropriate	controls	and	reporting	mechanisms.	The	framework	helps	bring	consistency	and	structure	to	the	varied	types	of	risks	we	face	across	Citi	—	leading	to	better	scenario-planning,	stress	testing	and	root-cause	analyses	across	the	risk	lifecycle.	All	colleagues	are	empowered	to	apply	the	Enterprise	Risk	Management	Framework	to	their	work	and	are	responsible	for	promptly	escalating	risk-related	concerns.	We	rolled	out	training	on	the	new	framework	to	all	employees	globally	in	2021,	and	98%	completed	the	training	by	the	end	of	the	year.	We	are	also	developing	standards,	plans	and	training	curricula	for	a	more	modern,	streamlined	approach	to	our	control	environment,	which	we	will	be	implementing	in	future	years.	For	example,	we	are	ensuring	that	when	incidents	arise,	our	employees	can	conduct	robust	root-cause	analyses	and	then	apply	the	lessons	learned	horizontally	across	the	organization	to	prevent	similar	issues	from	arising	elsewhere.	In	addition,	we	are	working	to	simplify,	streamline	and	automate	our	controls	—	strengthening	our	ability	to	prevent	issues,	not	just	to	detect	them	after	they	arise.	To	empower	our	employees	and	increase	the	effectiveness	of	their	day-to-day	work,	we	are	undertaking	a	full	update	of	our	policies	to	make	them	easier	to	understand	and	take	action	against.	We’re	also	planning	to	migrate	our	policies	to	a	new	platform	in	2023,	making	them	easier	to	access	and	navigate.	During	2021,	we	continued	to	build	teams	focused	on	transformation	activities	across	the	company.	These	teams	are	a	hybrid	of	employees	with	a	depth	of	institutional	knowledge	and	newer	employees	who	bring	diverse	expertise	and	perspectives.	
Accountability, Culture  and TalentOur	transformation	is	underpinned	by	a	fundamental	reset	of	our	approach	to	culture	and	talent,	to	strengthen	risk	management	and	our	control	environment.	We	believe	this	will	allow	us	to	build	a	culture	of	excellence	in	which	we	each	take	ownership	for	managing	risk	and	controls	and	where	we	continue	to	take	pride	in	working	together	to	always	do	the	right	thing	for	our	clients,	colleagues	and	communities.To	achieve	this,	we	introduced	a	new	set	of	Leadership	Principles	in	2021,	to	help	us	embed	the	behaviors	and	conditions	we	need	in	order	to	sustain	the	changes	we	are	making	as	part	of	our	transformation.	To	further	embed	the	Leadership	Principles,	Citi	is	deploying	a	three-year,	firm-wide	culture	change	program,	designed	to	change	the	way	we	work	by	introducing	small,	everyday	habits	that	we	can	all	adopt	to	make	Citi	a	stronger,	simpler	and	more	enjoyable	place	to	work.	We	are	working	to	ensure	that	we	have	the	right	number	of	employees	with	the	right	skills	in	place	to	achieve	risk	and	control	excellence,	and	that	we	use	our	employee	development	programs,	promotion	and	performance	management	processes	and	compensation	to	reinforce	and	incentivize	that	excellence.	Our	compensation	structure	captures	individual	impacts	on	risk	and	control,	and	each	of	our	employees	has	a	related	performance	goal	they	are	working	toward.	Ethics and Culture  at CitiEach	of	our	employees	shares	a	common	responsibility	to	earn	and	maintain	our	clients’	trust	by	applying	our	values	and	principles	every	day,	to	everything	they	do,	wherever	Citi	operates.	We	expect	our	employees	to	prioritize	excellence	—	for	our	clients,	in	our	operations,	and	in	our	risk	and	controls	environment	—	and	to	provide	our	products,	services	and	expertise	in	a	systemically	responsible	manner,	while	complying	with	all	applicable	laws,	regulations	and	Citi	policies.	To	reinforce	this,	we	establish	and	communicate	our	core	values	and	principles	through	our	Mission	and	Value	Proposition,	our	Leadership	Principles,	Citi’s	Code	of	Conduct,	various	training	and	development	opportunities,	employee	engagement	initiatives	and	communications	from	our	senior	leaders.Tone from the TopWe	foster	a	culture	of	ethics	through	our	governance	framework,	programs	and	efforts	that	embed	our	culture	and	expectations	for	behavior	throughout	the	organization.	Our	approach	begins	with	a	strong	“tone	from	the	top,”	starting	with	our	Board	of	Directors.	With	oversight	from	the	Ethics,	Conduct	and	Culture	Committee	of	the	Board,	our	senior	leaders	consistently	reinforce	a	culture	of	ethics,	appropriate	conduct	and	accountability	within	the	organization,	and	empower	our	employees	to	make	ethical	decisions,	escalate	issues	and	adhere	to	Citi’s	standards	of	conduct.WE ASK OUR COLLEAGUES GLOBALLY TO ENSURE THAT THEIR DECISIONS PASS THREE TESTS:• They are in our clients’ interests.• They create economic value.• They are always systemically responsible.These three tests help our colleagues to responsibly deliver on our core activities of safeguarding assets, lending money, making payments and accessing capital markets on behalf of our clients — each of which creates an obligation to act with integrity, to do everything possible to create the best outcomes for our clients, and to prudently manage risk. The tests demonstrate our commitment to using good judgment and taking pride in doing the right thing — even when it’s not the easiest thing.
Acting with IntegrityWe	empower	our	employees	to	do	what’s	right	by	setting	clear	expectations	through	our	Mission	and	Value	Proposition,	Leadership	Principles	and	Code	of	Conduct,	as	well	as	by	providing	the	tools	and	resources	our	employees	need	to	act	ethically,	along	with	clear	information	about	the	various	resources	available	to	escalate	concerns.Code of ConductCiti’s	Code	of	Conduct	outlines	the	standards	of	ethics	and	professional	behavior	expected	of	employees	and	representatives	of	Citi	when	dealing	with	clients,	business	colleagues,	shareholders,	communities	and	each	other.	It	also	provides	an	overview	of	key	legal	and	regulatory	requirements	and	select	global	policies.Our	Code	reinforces	for	employees	that	Citi’s	culture	is	one	in	which	we	take	pride	in	always	doing	the	right	thing,	hold	ourselves	and	each	other	accountable,	and	feel	comfortable	and	equipped	to	promptly	escalate	concerns	about	actual	or	potential	misconduct.	It	also	reflects	Citi’s	ongoing	commitment	to	fostering	a	culture	of	diversity	and	inclusion	—	one	in	which	doing	the	right	thing	includes	showing	empathy	for	our	colleagues,	clients	and	communities;	treating	each	other	with	respect	and	civility;	and	continuing	to	invest	in	colleagues	from	all	backgrounds.Citi’s Leadership PrinciplesThese principles represent the qualities, behaviors and expectations we all must exhibit to deliver on our mission of enabling growth and economic progress. They will contribute to creating a culture that drives client excellence, controls excellence and operational excellence.We take ownership: Challenging each other to high standards and welcoming that challenge; greeting change with optimism, curiosity and resilience; speaking with candor; learning from experience; and contributing to and honoring group decisions We deliver with pride: Striving for excellence across our business; simplifying, standardizing and clarifying our work; holding ourselves and others accountable for managing risk; fixing root causes of problems; and taking pride in doing the right thingWe succeed together: Valuing and learning from different perspectives; breaking down barriers; measuring performance through a stakeholder lens; investing in colleagues from all backgrounds; and showing empathy for our colleagues, clients and communities.Citi’s	Code	of	Conduct	applies	to	all	directors,	officers	and	employees	of	Citi	worldwide.	Upon	joining	Citi,	employees	must	acknowledge	that	they	have	read	and	will	comply	with	our	Code.	To	best	serve	our	global	workforce,	we	publish	our	Code	of	Conduct	in	21	languages	and	make	it	publicly	available	on	our	Investor	Relations	website.	Individuals	performing	services	for	Citi	may	also	be	subject	to	our	Code	by	contract	or	agreement.	As	explicitly	stated	in	our	Code,	violations	can	result	in	disciplinary	action	up	to	and	including	termination	of	employment	or	other	relationship	with	Citi.We	provide	Code	of	Conduct	training	to	new	hires	globally	when	they	join	Citi,	as	well	as	to	nonemployee	contingent	workers	performing	services	for	Citi	at	their	time	of	onboarding.	In	addition,	we	ask	employees	and	contingent	workers	to	periodically	reaffirm	their	commitment	to	our	Code	through	required	Code	of	Conduct	training.	The	training	includes	hypothetical	work-related	ethical	scenarios	that	focus	on	making	good	decisions	and	performing	our	work	in	a	way	that	is	consistent	with	Citi’s	values,	culture,	applicable	laws,	and	Citi	policies,	standards	and	procedures.	The	training	includes	hypothetical	work-related	situations	that	allow	employees	to	practice	ethical	decision-making	and	reinforce	key	concepts	from	our	Code	of	Conduct,	Mission	and	Value	Proposition	and	our	Leadership	Principles.	Like	our	Code	of	Conduct,	the	training	emphasizes	employees’	obligation	to	promptly	report	actual	or	suspected	misconduct	and	provides	information	on	the	various	resources	available	to	them	to	do	so.Leadership PrinciplesIn	early	2021,	we	launched	a	new	set	of	Leadership	Principles	that	reflect	the	behaviors	and	expectations	we	have	for	ourselves	in	line	with	our	transformation	to	become	a	better,	stronger	bank.	We	encourage	all	employees	to	demonstrate	the	Leadership	Principles	in	all	that	they	do.	Holding	ourselves	and	each	other	to	these	high	standards	is	part	of	our	culture	and	our	commitment	to	operating	in	our	clients’	best	interests,	driving	economic	value	and	managing	risk.	We	expect	managers	to	lead	by	example	and	inspire	their	employees	to	live	Citi’s	values.	Every	manager	is	responsible	for	creating	a	work	environment	that	is	free	of	
discrimination,	harassment	and	retaliation.	Managers	are	expected	to	reinforce	the	importance	of	following	our	Leadership	Principles,	Code	of	Conduct	and	Mission	and	Value	Proposition,	as	well	as	to	encourage	employees	to	speak	up	and	raise	any	concerns	about	potential	legal	or	ethical	issues.	Managers	must	properly	resolve	or	promptly	escalate	concerns	through	appropriate	channels,	promote	awareness	of	all	resources	available	for	reporting	concerns	and	neither	engage	in,	nor	tolerate,	retaliation	of	any	kind.Escalating Business and Ethical ConcernsStaying on Top of Your Ethical GameThrough our global Ethical Fitness Challenge, led by our Executive Management Team, we provided employees with the equipment they needed to get in their best ethical shape. Through this campaign, we released a series of eight modules over three years, incorporating senior leader videos, case studies and knowledge checks, as well as support to help managers guide conversations around each topic. Each part in the series highlighted a different element of ethical fitness, such as behavior rationalization, the importance of speaking up, misplaced loyalty and finding clarity in ethical situations. This campaign concluded in 2021, with a required training for all employees to consolidate and reinforce key themes presented over the course of the campaign.Each	member	of	our	workforce	plays	a	critical	role	in	escalating	business	and	ethical	concerns	so	that	they	can	be	addressed	quickly	and	effectively.	Citi’s	Code	of	Conduct	emphasizes	the	principle	that,	when	in	doubt,	employees	should	always	err	on	the	side	of	escalation.	Our	Code	provides	an	overview	of	the	types	of	misconduct	and	concerns	that	require	escalation	and	the	resources	available	to	employees	for	prompt	escalation	of	concerns,	as	well	as	a	link	to	the	full	Citi	Escalation	Policy,	which	provides	even	more	information	for	employees	about	escalation	requirements	and	resources.As	part	of	Citi’s	escalation	resources,	the	Ethics	Hotline	provides	multiple	channels	for	employees	and	any	third	party,	including	members	of	the	general	public,	to	report	concerns	about	unethical	behavior	to	Citi’s	Ethics	Office.	In	addition	to	internal	and	public-facing	websites	(enhanced	in	January	2022	with	upgraded	features)	that	facilitate	submission	of	concerns,	a	telephone	line	is	available	24	hours	a	day,	seven	days	a	week,	with	live	operators	who	can	connect	to	translators	in	multiple	languages.We	believe	it	is	essential	that	individuals	feel	secure	when	raising	a	concern.	All	contacts	to	the	Ethics	Office	and	Ethics	Office	investigations	are	treated	as	confidentially	as	possible,	consistent	with	the	need	to	investigate	and	address	the	matter,	and	subject	to	applicable	laws	and	regulations.	Concerns	may	be	raised	either	anonymously	or	with	attribution,	subject	to	applicable	laws	and	regulations.	Further,	Citi	prohibits	any	form	of	retaliation	against	anyone	who	raises	a	concern	or	question	regarding	ethics,	discrimination	or	harassment	matters,	as	well	as	against	anyone	who	participates	in	a	subsequent	investigation.	Employees	who	engage	in	retaliation	against	a	colleague	because	they	raised	a	concern	or	question,	asked	for	a	reasonable	accommodation,	reported	a	violation	or	was	involved	in	an	investigation	are	subject	to	disciplinary	action,	up	to	and	including	termination	of	employment	or	other	relationship	with	Citi.ASSESSING OUR CULTURE OF ETHICSHearing from employees is one important way we assess the strength of ethics and accountability across our company. As part of Citi’s annual Voice of the Employee survey, we include an Ethical Culture Index to gather feedback from employees about the following items:• Comfort with reporting unethical practices without fear of reprisal• A feeling of accountability to identify and escalate issues• Confidence that Citi will act upon reported legal or ethical violations• A belief that colleagues act with integrity• Manager encouragement of ethical conduct even in the face of pressureIndex results stayed stable in 2021, with 91% of our employees responding positively to the index. We will continue to listen to our employees and raise the bar in this area.
TRANSPARENCY FOR EMPLOYEESAnnual Ethics Hotline SummaryEach year, the Citi Ethics Office provides all employees with a summary of the types of concerns received through the Ethics Hotline and the types of corrective actions that may arise from substantiated concerns. This summary demonstrates that the Ethics Hotline process is used by our colleagues globally and that raising concerns to the Citi Ethics Office leads to meaningful action within our organization, such as disciplinary action, termination of vendor relationships, referrals to law enforcement or governmental authorities, employee communications, additional training, control enhancements, and changes to Citi policies, business processes and procedures.Spotlight on EthicsCiti shares with employees the results of ethics investigations, including a summary of corrective actions, through a quarterly communication called the Spotlight on Ethics. This communication reinforces for employees that their concerns are investigated and highlights commonplace areas in which ethical lapses can occur. In 2021, the Spotlight on Ethics focused on select risk areas such as protecting information from inappropriate uses, the prohibition on using unapproved communication methods to conduct Citi business, preventing retaliation or the suppression of concerns, and the requirement to cooperate with appropriately authorized internal or external investigations.
Risk	Management
We employ robust policies and practices to thwart corruption, address potential environmental and social risks in our portfolio, and safeguard data and customer privacy. These rigorous practices enable us to grow a successful, respected business that delivers  the best possible results for our clients, customers and communities.Managing Corruption and Tax-Related RisksAnti-Corruption ActivitiesCiti’s	Financial	Crimes	Unit	includes	the	Global	Financial	Crimes	Investigations	and	Intelligence	(GFCII),	Anti-Bribery	and	Corruption,	Anti-Money	Laundering	(AML)	and	Sanctions	teams.	Our	Chief	Compliance	Officer,	who	reports	directly	to	our	CEO,	provides	regular	reports	on	the	performance	of	our	compliance	program,	with	regard	to	these	areas,	to	our	Board	of	Directors	or	a	committee	of	the	Board,	as	appropriate.	Through	our	Financial	Crimes	unit,	Citi	works	to	prevent,	identify	and	counteract	the	many	and	varied	corruption-related	risks	that	confront	the	financial	sector.For	example,	since	its	inception	in	2018,	Citi	has	been	an	active	member	of	United	for	Wildlife’s	Financial	Taskforce,	a	collaboration	between	financial	institutions	and	nongovernmental	organizations	to	fight	illegal	wildlife	trafficking.	In	2021,	Citi	worked	with	United	for	Wildlife,	TRAFFIC	and	two	telecommunications	companies	to	create	an	illegal	wildlife	trade	country	threat	profile	outlining	critical	risk	scenarios	and	indicators	for	countries	in	sub-Saharan	Africa,	beginning	with	Kenya	as	a	pilot.	In	addition,	during	2021,	Citi’s	GFCII	and	Anti-Bribery	and	Corruption	teams	participated	in	a	working	group	led	by	the	Organisation	for	Economic	Cooperation	and	Development	(OECD)	to	develop	a	credible	certification	framework	for	evaluating	infrastructure	projects	under	the	auspices	of	the	OECD’s	Blue	Dot	Network.	Once	implemented,	this	framework	will	set	a	standard	to	develop	market-driven,	transparent,	financially	sustainable	development	projects.	The	working	group	is	made	up	of	leaders	and	experts	from	the	private	sector,	civil	society	and	academia	and	is	focused	on	the	following	core	themes:	investment	efficiency	and	outcomes,	environmental	and	social	considerations,	and	transparency	and	integrity.	Citi	participants	are	shaping	the	framework	by	sharing	their	expertise	in	standards,	guidelines	and	practices	related	to	AML	and	anti-bribery	and	corruption,	including	third-party	and	advisor/intermediary	risk	management,	procurement	lobbying,	controls,	risk	assessments,	metrics,	Financial	Action	Task	Force	guidance	and	customer	due	diligence.In	2021,	Citi	also	contributed	to	a	multisession	workshop	sponsored	by	the	Terrorism,	Transnational	Crime	and	Corruption	Center,	in	conjunction	with	the	Association	of	Certified	Anti-Money	Laundering	Specialists.	Participants	included	several	financial	institutions	and	leading	nonprofit	organizations	with	expertise	in	environmental	crimes,	such	as	TRAFFIC	and	key	U.S.	government	development	agencies	(e.g.,	USAID).	The	workshops	were	designed	to	address	key	aspects	of	global	environmental	crime	and	corruption.	GFCII	provided	several	presentations	and	led	discussions	on	the	capability	of	financial	institutions	and	the	importance	of	information-sharing	regarding	typologies	and	red	flags,	to	address	crimes	related	to	environmental,	social	and	governance	(ESG)	issues.	As	an	outcome	of	the	roundtable	discussions,	TRAFFIC	worked	with	GFCII	to	provide	specialized	training	to	Citi	employees	in	our	Europe,	Middle	East	and	Africa	region.	This	included	a	series	of	webinars	co-hosted	by	Citi,	TRAFFIC	and	the	Environmental	Investigation	Agency,	a	nongovernmental	organization	that	investigates	and	campaigns	against	environmental	crime	and	abuse.	The	training	series	focused	on	how	to	identify	red	flags	in	client	onboarding	and	transactional	activity	to	disrupt	the	flow	of	income	generated	by	environmental	crime.	
Contents 	ESG at Citi 	Sustainable Finance 	Sustainable Progress 	Equitable & Resilient Communities 	Talent & DEI 	RiskManagement&ResponsibleBusiness 	AppendicesPrograms and Training to Combat Financial Crimes Anti-Bribery ProgramCiti has policies, procedures and internal controls to comply with anti-bribery laws, and we conduct an annual bribery risk assessment of all global business lines. We provide our staff with anti-bribery training annually and supplement it with targeted training and communications as needed. For more information, see the Citi Anti-Bribery Program Statement, which is updated at least annually.Anti-Money Laundering ProgramCiti’s Anti-Money Laundering (AML) Program protects our clients, our franchise and the global financial system from the risks of money laundering and terrorist financing. The program includes more than 5,600 employees globally, including 225 designated AML Country Officers covering every Citi business, function and geographic area. These specialists partner with various functions, including Compliance, Audit, Technology and our institutional and consumer businesses, to provide effective enterprise AML risk assessment and to meet our AML-related requirements at both the global and the local levels. For more information, visit our AML Program website.Global Financial Crimes Investigations and Intelligence Global Financial Crimes Investigations and Intelligence (GFCII) is uniquely positioned within our Compliance function to tackle financial crime and provide a globally consistent approach to the prevention and detection of risk. GFCII leverages its many trusted partnerships with law enforcement, nonprofits and internal stakeholders to obtain actionable intelligence, primarily through participation in public/private forums, allowing for proactive identification of illicit activity and effective mitigation of risk. This connectivity results in the execution of a data-driven global strategy addressing emerging risk trends and typologies across business lines and geographies.Sanctions ProgramCiti is obligated to comply with applicable sanctions, laws and regulations in the countries where we operate and maintains a robust, risk-based Independent Compliance Risk Management Sanctions Program that applies globally. As a financial institution organized in the United States, Citi and our subsidiaries globally comply with applicable U.S. sanctions requirements, among other requirements. Our Sanctions Program includes policies and procedures, risk category statement and tolerance thresholds, enterprise-wide screening, annual risk assessments and audits of sanctions control processes, employee training and a diverse team of Compliance professionals stationed around the world.For more information on our Financial Crimes programs, please see Citi’s Code of Conduct.Number of Employees and Contingent Workers Who Completed Citi’s 2021 Financial Crimes Compliance Training (by Region)*	62,759	29,499	28,671	74,365North  	Latin  	Europe, Middle  	Asia  America	America	East and Africa	Pacific*	This	combined	online	training	incorporates	multiple	anti-corruption	efforts,	including	AML,	sanctions	and	anti-bribery	training.	Numbers	include	all	Citi	staff	who	had	completed	the 2021	training	as	of	December	2021.	(Employees	and	contingent	workers	generally	have	30	days	to	complete	it.)Taxation Policies  and StandardsCiti	does	business	in	more	than	160	countries	and	jurisdictions,	and	maintains	strong	review	and	escalation	processes	that	enable	us	to	adhere	to	high	standards	of	compliance	with	applicable	tax	laws.	We	are	a	current	income	taxpayer,	both	within	and	outside	the	United	States.	Our	tax	profile	is	consistent	with	the	locations	of	our	business	operations.We	emphasize	strong	internal	controls	and	transparency	with	global	tax	authorities	and	share	information	relevant	to	our	tax	profile.	We	supplement	this	transparency	with	additional	country-by-country	reporting,	which	is	required	under	the	OECD’s	action	plan	to	address	base	erosion	and	profit	shifting.	Our	tax	policy	is	overseen	by	our	Chief	Tax	Officer,	who	reports	to	the	Chief	Financial	Officer.	Tax	policies	and	related	matters	are	reviewed	by	the	Audit	Committee	of	the	Board	of	Directors.Citi	maintains	a	strong	system	of	controls	to	facilitate	reporting	and	withholding	requirements.	We	have	systems	and	processes	to	comply	with	the	Foreign	Account	Tax	Compliance	Act,	and	we	are	in	compliance	with	the	Common	Reporting	Standard	in	all	applicable	countries	where	local	implementing	guidance	has	been	issued.	Similarly,	we	have	a	firm-wide	policy	applicable	to	customer	transactions	under	which	Citi	will	only	engage	in	transactions	where	there	is	a	high	degree	of	certainty	that	any	tax	aspects	will	be	accepted	by	the	respective	taxing	authorities.For	more	information	on	how	taxation	impacts	Citi,	see	page	128	of	our		2021	Form	10-K.Public PolicyBeing	a	responsible	corporate	citizen	includes	engagement	in	the	political	process	as	a	part	of	our	strong	ESG	practice.	The	potential	impact	of	public	policy	on	our	business,	employees,	communities	and	customers	is	an	important	reason	why	Citi	works	to	advance	and	protect	the	global	business	interests	of	our	company	directly	and	indirectly	through	engagement	with	trade	associations,	governments	and	elected	officials	around	the	world.	Citi	advocates	for	public	policies	that	support	the	interests	of	our	company,	clients	and	employees,	such	as	trade,	cybersecurity,	data	localization,	tax	and	financial	reform.	Guided	by	Citi’s	Political	Engagement	Statement,	company	political	activities	are	performed	in	compliance	with	applicable	laws	and	regulations.Under	U.S.	Federal	Election	Commission	rules,	Citi’s	Political	Action	Committee	(Citi	PAC)	pools	the	voluntary	contributions	of	eligible	employees	to	support	U.S.	political	candidates	and	campaigns	that	support	the	financial	industry	and	complementary	pro-business	policies.	In	2021,	we	reviewed	and	strengthened	our	principles	for	determining	future	support	by	Citi	PAC.	The	updated	criteria	include:	• Support	of	business	issues	important	to	Citi	• Position	on	a	committee	with	jurisdiction	over	policy	issues	important	to	Citi,	or	elected	leadership	position	• Representation	of	a	state	or	district	where	Citi	has	a	significant	employee	presence	• Character	and	integrity,	and	demonstrated	commitment	to	bipartisanship,	governing	and	protecting	democratic	institutions	
Our	bipartisan	Government	Affairs	team	and	the	Citi	PAC	Board	will	consider	whether	contributions	meet	the	strengthened	criteria	going	forward.Safeguarding Data and Protecting Customer InformationAs	digital	solutions	expand	and	become	more	integrated	into	our	daily	lives,	we	see	increasing	concerns	related	to	privacy	and	security	breaches.	Data	security	and	customer	privacy	are	top	priorities	for	Citi	and	for	our	stakeholders.	The	COVID-19	pandemic	has	led	to	an	even	greater		reliance	on	digital	technologies,	which	makes	safeguarding	data	and	customer	information	even	more	vital.CybersecurityCiti’s	Chief	Information	Security	Office	(CISO)	organization	ensures	that	an	appropriate	level	of	cybersecurity	governance,	capabilities	and	controls	are	in	place	to	protect	Citi’s	and	our	clients’	information	assets,	with	end-to-end	accountability	across	the	firm.	Our	approach	rests	on	ensuring	we	have	the	right	architecture,	technology,	policies,	processes	and	talent	in	place	to	prevent,	detect,	respond	to	and	recover	from	cyber	threats	quickly.Our	Cybersecurity	Program	is	overseen	by	Citi’s	Board	of	Directors	and	is	regularly	reviewed	by	regulators,	as	well	as	by	internal	and	external	auditors.	The	program	is	managed	by	the	Chief	Enterprise	Operations	&	Technology	Officer	and	the	Chief	Information	Security	Officer	on	a	global	enterprise	basis;	the	Chief	Executives	of	each	business	sector	and	region	are	responsible	for	implementation	and	compliance	with	program	requirements.	Annually,	we	provide	our	employees	with	training	on	how	to	properly	handle	and	maintain	the	security	and	privacy	of	Citi’s	and	our	clients’	information.During	2021, Citi’s	cybersecurity	team	organized	a	series	of	preparedness	exercises	for	employees,	including	cybersecurity	scenarios	for	global	functions	and	lines	of	business	across	both	our	Institutional	Clients	Group	and	Personal	Banking	&	Wealth	Management	divisions.	Due	to	the	continued	impact	of	COVID-19,	these	events	were	again	conducted	remotely.	During	the	year,	we	saw	continued	growth	in	demand	from	senior	executives	for	cybersecurity	exercises.	The	Citi	cybersecurity	team	conducted	a	series	of	linked	exercises	for	our	various	regions,	culminating	with	an	exercise	for	our	CEO	and	Global	Operating	team.	Citi’s	Cybersecurity	Fusion	Center	participated	in	these	global	cybersecurity	exercises	and	conducted	additional	drills	dedicated	to	its	operations.To	safeguard	information,	we	invest	in	and	develop	advanced	security	solutions	that	allow	us	to	better	support	our	digital	strategy.	For	instance,	we	are	implementing	a	multifaceted	approach	to	move	toward	password-less	capabilities,	including	biometric	options	such	as	voice	recognition	or	fingerprints.	These	solutions	create	a	frictionless	and	more	secure	experience	for	both	internal	and	external	users.	In	addition,	Citi	has	invested	in	next-generation	security	components	that	support	digital	and	mobile	growth,	by	enabling	enhanced	security	features	for	our	mobile	applications.	Further	investments	in	advanced	technology	have	provided	Citi	with	improved	cyber	incident	monitoring,	detection	and	response	capabilities,	strengthening	the	bank’s	cybersecurity	posture.Citi	conducts	regular	cybersecurity	risk	assessments	and	has	internal	controls	to	defend	against	cybersecurity	breaches.	We	maintain	technology	and	cybersecurity	policies	based	on	established	industry	standards	and	employ	robust	technologies	to	protect	our	data	and	systems,	supported	by	a	strong	team	with	deep	expertise	from	industry	and	government.	Our	CISO	team	safeguards	information	from	data	breaches	and	misuse	by	maintaining	secure	networks	to	protect	our	systems	and	databases,	and	we	continuously	improve	our	capabilities	to	meet	the	challenge	of	an	evolving	threat	environment.In	the	event	of	a	potential	breach,	we	have	a	robust	process	to	ensure	appropriate	reporting	and	notification,	which	includes:• Reviewing	the	breach	to	determine	whether	it	meets	any	regulatory	or	legal	reporting	requirements	in	the	country(ies)	where	the	breach	occurred	or	in	the	country(ies)	impacted	by	the	breach.	If	deemed	necessary,	a	legal	assessment	is	conducted.• Notifying	the	impacted	customers	as	required	by	the	laws	or	regulations	of	the	impacted	country(ies)	and	as	directed	in	the	legal	assessment,	if	it	results	in	a	requirement	to	perform	customer	notifications.We	understand	that	simply	defending	ourselves	is	not	enough.	We	must	also	influence	the	broader	cybersecurity	landscape	within	which	Citi	operates.	As	such,	we	collaborate	with	our	clients,	peer	financial	institutions,	governments,	law	enforcement	and	intelligence	agencies	on	a	global	scale	to	share	best	practices,	exchange	tactical	information	about	specific	cybersecurity	threats,	conduct	joint	cyber	resilience	exercises	and	work	to	drive	adoption	of	industry-wide	standards	and	approaches	that	will	best	enable	the	collective	defense	of	the	financial	services	sector	against	cybersecurity	challenges.	Our	security	teams	receive	and	share	threat	data	with	our	partners	in	near	real	time,	leveraging	that	information	to	strengthen	our	internal	controls	and	practices	and	to	protect	Citi	from	attacks	being	perpetrated against	other	firms.	Citi	takes	a	leadership	role	in	fostering	a	culture	of	sharing	amongst	our	competitors	on	security	issues,	putting	competitive	instincts	aside	for	the	sake	of	strong	information	security	practices.		PrivacyThe	fair,	ethical	and	lawful	collection,	use	and	processing	of	customers’	personal	information	is	essential	to	build	trust,	provide	best-in-class	services	and	achieve	our	corporate	objectives.	To	help	meet	this	goal,	Citi	has	established	a	dedicated	Chief	Privacy	Office	team,	led	by	a	global	Chief	Privacy	Officer.	The	Chief	Privacy	Office,	part	of	our	Independent	Compliance	Risk	Management	team,	manages	the	Citi	Global	Privacy	Program,	which	is	overseen	by	Citi’s	Privacy	Advisory	Body.	The	program	provides	a	framework	for	managing	privacy	and	confidentiality	risks	for	the	company.	Citi	has	also	established	the	Global	Chief	Privacy	Counsel	under	the	General	Counsel’s	Office.	The	Global	Chief	Privacy	Counsel	provides	guidance	and	strategic	direction	regarding	privacy	and	data	protection	laws	to	the	Chief	Privacy	Office	and	to	businesses	and	functions	across	the	enterprise.Citi’s	Privacy	and	Bank	Customer	Confidentiality	Policy	articulates	principles	relating	to	the	collection	and	processing	of	personal	information,	requiring,	in	part,	that	personal	information	only	be	collected	and	used	as	necessary	for	the	performance	of	the	services	offered	and	for	the	purposes	disclosed	in	a	privacy	notice.	Citi	is	transparent	in	our	collection	and	use	practices	and	offers	customers	choices	about	how	their	personal	information	may	be	collected	or	otherwise	used	(as	required	by	law),	including	opting	out	of	marketing	or	other	communications	or	reviewing	and	correcting	information.	Citi	employees	are	required	to	take	privacy	and	information	compliance	training	that	covers	these	privacy	concepts.Protecting Digital IdentityFor	financial	institutions	such	as	Citi,	verifying	our	customers’	identity	is	fundamental	to	safeguarding	their	financial	assets	and	protecting	their	privacy.	Our	aim	is	to	deliver	solutions	that	provide	seamless,	intuitive	interactions	with	digital	tools	that	won’t	compromise	personal	data.	To	provide	ongoing	training	for	our	employees,	we	have	created	digital	identity	learning	packs	that	help	build	awareness	of	—	and	skills	related	to	—	new	digital	identity	technologies.	In	addition,	we	engage	with	clients,	partners	and	industry	experts	to	discuss	the	trends,	challenges	and	opportunities	related	to	digital	identity	and	to	explore	cutting-edge	technologies	that	have	the	potential	to	meet	our	customers’	needs.We	also	provide	our	customers	with	timely	resources	and	information	related	to	safety	and	security.	Our	U.S.	online	Security	Center	enables	customers	to	learn	about	what	Citi	does	to	protect	them	and	what	they	can	do	to	protect	themselves	against	identify	theft	and	other	security	risks.Environmental and Social Risk Management Our	Environmental	and	Social	Risk	Management	(ESRM)	Policy	helps	us	identify	potential	risks	within	the	billions	of	dollars	in	global	transactions	we	facilitate	worldwide.	This	policy	also	sets	a	framework	for	us	to	evaluate	how	our	clients	are	managing	those	risks.Our ESRM PolicyOur	ESRM	Policy,	which	is	summarized	publicly	in	our	Environmental	and	Social	Policy	Framework,	helps	us	finance	projects	and	activities	responsibly	by	engaging	our clients	on	environmental	and	social	risks	and	best	practices.	We	established	the	Policy	in	2003,	and	we	continue	to	evolve	our	approach	in	response	to	emerging	risks	and	new	product	development.	In	2021,	we	updated	our	ESRM	Policy	by	adding	a	policy	prohibition	against	financing	for	companies	constructing	or	operating	private	prisons	as	a	primary	business.	Although	this	has	not	been	an	issue	for	our	company	in	the	past,	we	decided	to	formalize	this	commitment	through	an	official	policy	update.	Our	comprehensive	ESRM	Policy	covers	a	broad	scope	of	financial	products	and	client	sectors	and	guides	how	we	assess	client	impacts	on	air	quality,	water	quality,	climate	change,	biodiversity,	local	communities,	labor,	human	rights	and	other	environmental	and	social	issues.	Our	internal	policies	and	procedures	reference	international	industry	standards,	such	as	the	International	Finance	Corporation’s	Environmental	and	Social	Performance	Standards	and	the	World	Bank	Group’s	Environmental,	Health,	and	Safety	Guidelines.	Where	relevant,	we	also	require	clients	to	adhere	to	sector	and	commodity-specific	guidelines	and	certifications	such	as	the	Roundtable	on	Sustainable	Palm	Oil	and	the	Forest	Stewardship	Council.
Policy ImplementationOur	centralized	team	of	ESRM	specialists	within	Citi’s	Risk	Management	function	evaluates	transactions	that	trigger	a	review	under	our	ESRM	Policy.	We	also	provide	ESRM	training	to	key	risk	and	banking	personnel	globally,	enabling	them	to	spot	potential	risks.	In	addition,	our	ESRM	Champions,	located	around	the	world,	use	their	regional	expertise	and	additional	ESRM	training	to	serve	as	bridges	between	our	local	banking	teams	and	our	global	ESRM	team.	This	network	approach	enhances	the	global	coverage	capacity	of	our	centralized	specialist	team.	The	ESRM	team	shares	information	and	best	practices	with	ESRM	Champions	to	support	and	strengthen	the	entire	network.When	the	viability	of	a	deal	is	first	explored,	our	ESRM	team	works	with	Citi	bankers	to	evaluate	the	magnitude	of	the	potential	environmental	and	social	impacts	associated	with	the	transaction	and	to	determine	what	action,	if	any,	is	needed	to	comply	with	our	ESRM	Policy	prior	to	final	approval	of	the	transaction.	If	Citi	receives	a	mandate	to	move	forward	with	a	transaction	that	involves	such	risks,	the	ESRM	team	continues	to	work	with	the	banking	team	to	conduct	due	diligence	commensurate	with	the	risks	faced.Higher-risk,	project-related	transactions	may	receive	in-depth	reviews	by	independent	environmental	and	social	consultants	to	benchmark	against	international	standards.	If	gaps	are	found	between	a	client’s	environmental	and	social	plans,	policies	or	practices	and	international	standards,	we	require	the	development	of	an	Environmental	and	Social	Action	Plan	(ESAP)	to	fill	the	gaps.	As	a	condition	of	financing,	we	require	the	client	to	implement	the	ESAP	by	specifying	covenants	in	the	loan	agreement,	and	we	monitor	its	progress	over	time.	In	some	cases,	we	decline	to	participate	in	a	transaction	because	we	do	not	believe	we	can	adequately	address	the	environmental	and	social	risks	through	mitigation	measures	or	because	the	risks	are	too	high.Applying	our	ESRM	Policy	helps	us	to	identify	risks	beyond	traditional	credit	risks,	guides	how	we	evaluate	transactions	related	to	companies	or	projects	in	highrisk	sectors	and	presents	opportunities	for	us	to	advise	clients	on	solutions	to	thematic	risks.	Over	the	last	few	years,	we	have	seen	a	rapid	increase	in	the	volume	and	variety	of	transactions	flagged	for	ESRM	review.	This	is	due	to	increased	interest	from	regulators	on	ESRM-related	issues	and	the	growth	in	ESG-related	financial	products,	as	well	as	greater	engagement	across	the	firm	as	employees	receive	additional	training	and	become	more	aware	of	the	potential	environmental	and	social	risks	in	the	transactions	they	are	managing.	For	example,	the	responsibility	and	activities	of	our	ESRM	team	have	expanded	in	recent	years	to	account	for	increasing	attention	information	about	our	approach	and	management	activities	in	this	area,	see	the	Climate	Risk	and	Net	Zero	section.	The	ESRM	section	of	our	Environmental	and	Social	Policy	Framework	outlines	the	scope	of	our	ESRM	Policy,	including	the	types	of	transactions	that	trigger	a	review,	and	provides	additional	detail	about	our	risk-screening	practices	and	categories,	independent	reviews	and	action	plans.	The	Framework	also	includes	an	overview	of	our	Areas	of	High	Caution,	sector-specific	approaches	and	policy	prohibitions.PROTECTING BIODIVERSITY AND ADDRESSING RESETTLEMENT CONCERNS IN PANAMA CITYIn 2021, Citi, in coordination with other financial institutions, closed a $2 billion transaction to finance Metro Line 3, an expansion of Panama City’s metro system. Citi worked with Consorcio HPH,  a consortium of Korean companies responsible for the construction of Metro Line 3. Because this is a project-related corporate loan for more than  $50 million, due diligence processes required an independent review before the close of the transaction. Consorcio HPH and the lenders engaged environmental and social consultant, ERM, to evaluate the project’s environmental and social impacts and benchmark management plans against international standards. This due diligence revealed two primary risks related to the project: potential biodiversity impacts and physical/economic displacement of individuals and businesses along the path of the new metro line. To address biodiversity concerns and align the project with IFC Performance Standard 6 for biodiversity, ERM performed a Critical Habitat Assessment to study potential impacts on migratory and/or congregatory species within the project’s area of influence. ERM identified an Important Bird Area, including habitat for species such as the broad-winged hawk, Swainson’s hawk and turkey vulture. The assessment revealed that a small area of Critical Habitat (0.54 hectare) would be directly impacted by the project. In order to ensure a net gain of critical habitat and no net-loss of natural habitat, Consorcio HPH will implement reforestation and biodiversity monitoring programs to measure results.    After a review of impacts related to resettlement and livelihood displacement, it was determined that the project’s need for resettlement would be minimal. Nonetheless, Consorcio HPH is working with Metro de Panama S.A. (MPSA) to ensure that proper protocols are followed when engaging with residents about the need for resettlement, attaining willing seller consent, providing adequate compensation and developing livelihood restoration plans for those who may be impacted. MPSA is also working with a social consultant to enhance its local resettlement process to align with international best practice, including the IFC Performance Standard 5 for resettlement. As an additional precaution, the project’s construction schedule is tied to review by ERM and the lenders to ensure that resettlement risks are fully assessed and benchmarked before construction begins in areas where resettlement or displacement may occur.Ongoing	engagement	with	our	clients	is	an	important	part	of	our	ESRM	process.	When	we	first	established	our	ESRM	policy,	our	engagements	were	tied	to	specific,	project-related	financial	transactions	and	their	associated	environmental	and	social	risks	and	mitigation	efforts.	However,	as	we	have	developed	Sector	Approaches	and	Areas	of	High	Caution	over	the	years,	we	have	added	corporate-level	reviews	and	client	engagements	in	a	number	of	sectors.	These	sector-specific	risk	review	processes	encourage	dialogue	between	Citi	and	our	clients	about	the	material	environmental	and	social	risks	associated	with	their	operations,	enabling	us	to	develop	a	better	understanding	of	prevailing	industry	practices	and	our	clients’	performance	and	to	guide	our	clients	toward	more	sustainable	practices.Monitoring the Changing Risk LandscapeThe	ESRM	team	uses	a	number	of	methods	to	proactively	scan	the	changing	risk	landscape	for	new,	emerging	risks,	as	well	as	risks	with	increased	prominence	and	prevalence.	Through	internal	research,	engagement	with	our	regional	ESRM	Champions,	collaboration	with	others	in	our	industry,	and	the	use	of	third-party	environmental	and	social	data,	we	monitor	relevant	developments	in	high-risk	industries	and	stakeholder	concerns	to	flag	emerging	issues.Proactive	monitoring	enables	us	to	identify	issues	and	the	interrelated	impacts	of	various	sectors,	so	we	can	be	responsive	to	evolving	risks,	raise	awareness	within	Citi	about	emerging	issues	and	identify	clients	that	may	be	impacted	for	further	engagement.	We	are	beginning	to	incorporate	new	tools	to	scan	for	emerging	environmental	and	social	risks.	The	team	has	reviewed	a	range	of	technologies	for	use	in	our	due	diligence	approach,	such	as	environmental	DNA	gathering	to	conduct	biodiversity	baseline	studies	and	benchmark	improvements	in	biodiversity	values	over	time.	This	technique	enables	the	analysis	of	DNA	in	water	or	soil	samples	to	identify	the	fauna	living	in	a	given	project	area	without	the	need	to	visually	verify	their	presence.		Another	way	we	monitor	risk	is	by	conducting	sector-specific	reviews	to	identify	and	mitigate	emerging	risks	in	our	existing	portfolio.	These	evaluations	are	based	on	information	published	or	provided	by	the	client	as	well	as	information	from	specialized	ESG	rating	agencies	and	topic-specific	databases.	This	process	enables	us	to	better	understand	how	our	clients	manage	environmental	and	social	issues	and	provides	valuable	insight	into	the	level	of	related	risk	across	our	portfolio.	In	2021,	we	conducted	reviews	of	our	mining,	oil	and	gas,	and	power	portfolios	as	well	as	a	portfolio	review	of	our	clients	in	Malaysia	related	to	human	rights.	
Client EngagementOur	ESRM	team	is	collaborating	with	our	Sustainability	and	Corporate	Transitions	team	to	engage	with	clients	working	to	transition	toward	more	sustainable	strategies	and	business	models.	This	provides	opportunities	for	in-depth	discussions	of	specific	sustainability	topics,	identifies	ways	of	proactively	mitigating	environmental	and	social	risks,	and	supports	our	clients	in	their	efforts	to	align	with	international	standards	and	benchmarks.	For	example,	during	an	engagement	with	mining	clients	in	2021,	our	ESRM	team	provided	insight	and	analysis	related	to	the	sustainable	finance	market	and	the	challenges	and	opportunities	for	mining	companies	related	to	environmental	and	social	risk.	The	breadth	and	depth	of	our	ESRM	team’s	knowledge	in	these	areas	is	a	valuable	tool	to	help	us	assess	new	transactions	and	to	guide	and	advise	our	clients	as	we	work	toward	achieving	our	net	zero	commitment.	For	more	information	about	the	work	Citi	is	doing	to	help	clients	transition	to	a	low-carbon	future,	see	the	Financing	the	Low-Carbon	Transition	section.	Industry Collaboration	of	climate	and	biodiversity	and	our	connection	with	those	impacts	through	our	We	participate	in	many	environmentally	financial	relationships	with	our	clients.and	socially	focused	initiatives	and	organizations,	such	as	the	Equator	Principles	Association	and	the	Roundtable	on	ESRM Training Sustainable	Palm	Oil.	Each	year,	we	train	key	risk	and	banking	personnel	on	our	ESRM	Policy	to	help	them	Citi	is	also	a	member	of	the	Taskforce	identify	triggers	for	engagement	with	on	Nature-related	Financial	Disclosures	our	ESRM	specialist	team.	Topics	include	(TNFD)	Forum.	We	participated	in	an	environmental	and	social	risks	relevant	informal	working	group	prior	to	the	official	to	certain	regions	and	sectors,	implemen-launch	of	the	Taskforce	to	develop	the	tation	of	the	Equator	Principles	and	Citi’s	TNFD’s	workplan	for	creating	a	comple-Sector	Approaches,	as	well	as	specific	mentary	framework	to	the	Task	Force	on	topics	such	as	human	rights,	biodiversity	Climate-related	Financial	Disclosures,	but	and	emerging	climate	risk	analysis.	Due	to	with	a	focus	on	reporting	nature-related	increased	focus	from	key	stakeholders	in	risks	rather	than	climate-related	risks.	ESG	issues,	more	bankers	across	our	firm	Climate	and	biodiversity	are	interconare	receiving	ESRM	training,	which	enables	nected,	and	there	are	increasing	concerns	them	to	spot	potential	risks	and	engage	that	climate	change,	along	with	other	with	our	ESRM	team	more	effectively.	In	human	activity,	has	stressed	natural	total,	950	Citi	employees	underwent	ESRM	systems	and	contributed	to	ongoing	training	during	2021,	significantly	more	than	extinction	events.1	Through	our	collaborain	2020.	All	training	in	2021	was	conducted	tion	with	TNFD,	we	are	able	to	contribute	on	live	webinars	for	employees	globally.	to	important	nature-related	reporting	standards	and	continue	to	refine	our	understanding	of	the	complex	interaction	


DESIGNING FOR ACCESSIBILITYAs we strive to put all customers at the center of what we do, we recognize the importance of providing products and services that meet accessibility needs and preferences. The videos our U.S. Branded Cards business creates to heighten customer comprehension of key topics are designed to be fully accessible. This includes real-time descriptive transcripts, embedded closed captions and content readability.In addition, we offer Braille and talking ATMs, large print and Braille statements and raised-line checks for the visually impaired. We also offer TTY or Text Telephone for the hard of hearing. Many of our services are provided in multiple languages to support the diverse populations we serve, and our products are tailored to meet the needs of the individuals in the countries where we do business.Serving	Our	Customers		and	Clients	ResponsiblyWe have policies and systems in place to help ensure that we always treat customers responsibly and fairly, such as our Code of Conduct and the internal checks and balances we employ when creating new products.Responsible MarketingWe	are	committed	to	offering	clients	an	array	of	products	and	services	based	on	their	needs,	wants	and	preferences,	while	adhering	to	our	internal	policies	and	proce-dures	as	well	as	applicable	laws	and	regulafront	of	and	behind	the	camera.	This	initiations.	We	work	diligently	to	clearly	disclose	                                          tive	has	been	a	significant	step	forward	in	all	features	and	terms	and	conditions,	                                          helping	this	community	feel	recognized,	including	applicable	fees	and	charges,	for	accepted	and	empowered.	In	recognition	the	products	and	services	offered,	so	that	of	its	impact,	the	initiative	was	honored	clients	can	select	and	use	the	products	or	                                          as	one	of	Fast	Company’s	2021	World	services	best	suited	to	them.Changing	Ideas.Our	chosen	name	initiative	for	U.S.	Another	example	of	how	we	continue	to	Branded	credit	card	members	offers	                                          amplify	our	purpose-driven	initiatives	is	transgender	and	nonbinary	customers	the	                                          through	Citi’s	global,	mission-led	partability	to	use	their	chosen	first	name	on	                                          nership	with	the	International	Paralympic	their	eligible	card	and	within	our	servicing	                                          Committee,	which	focuses	on	positively	channels.	As	of	early	2022,	more	than	changing	societal	perceptions	of	people	22,000	customers	had	updated	their	first	                                          with	disabilities.	Over	the	past	several	name	on	their	physical	credit	cards,	and	                                          years	of	our	partnership,	Citi	sponsored	23	citi.com/updatemyname	had	received	                                          National	Paralympic	Committees	and	more	more	than	210,000	visits.	Most	impor-                                          than	50	Para	athletes	across	the	globe	in	tantly,	we’ve	received	notes	like	this	from	                                          their	quest	to	compete	at	the	highest	level. customers:	“I	wish	that	there	was	something	like	this	when	I	began	my	transition.	In	Summer	2021,	we	celebrated	our	Team	This	will	remove	one	of	the	many	worries	Citi	Para	athletes	and	showed	the	world	that	we	have	all	had	when	we	were	introthat	“It’s	Okay	to	Stare”	at	the	talents	and	ducing	our	true	selves	to	the	world.” accomplishments	of	the	disability	community	through	the	#StareAtGreatness	To	celebrate	the	launch	of	the	chosen	                                          campaign.	Our	advertising	and	social	name	initiative,	we	created	an	advertising	                                          media	campaign	successfully	raised	campaign	featuring	people	from	across	awareness	of	the	incredible	achievements	the	gender	diversity	spectrum,	both	in		of	these	athletes	and	others	within	the	disability	community,	earning	recognition	as	a	finalist	in	two	categories	at	the	2022	Halo	Awards.	In	early	2022,	Citi	extended	the	#StareAtGreatness	campaign	with	15	sponsored	Team	Citi	Winter	Para	athletes	to	continue	driving	conversations	around	the	world.As	part	of	Citi’s	Action for Racial Equity	goals,	we	are	collaborating	with	our	agency	partners	to	increase	the	percentage	of	people	of	color	working	on	Citi	accounts	and	to	increase	representation	of	people	of	color	in	our	marketing.	By	the	end	of	2023,	we	aspire	to	achieve	the	following:Aim to increase representation in the agencies we work with• People	of	color	making	up	at	least	25%	of	the	agency	teams	working	on	Citi	accounts• People	of	color	comprising	at	least		8%	of	senior	agency	leadership,	in	line	with	Citi’s	own	commitment
Helping Customers Give BackWe offer our U.S. cardholders an opportunity to make a difference by turning their ThankYou® Points into charitable gifts to nonprofits. In 2021, we joined the (RED)EEM initiative which enables eligible cardmembers to make donations with PayPal’s Pay with Rewards feature and supports organizations working to ensure equitable access to COVID-19 testing, treatment and vaccines in the world’s poorest countries. We also expanded the list of eligible organizations to include Susan G. Komen. The list also includes American Red Cross, No Kid Hungry, UNICEF USA and others. Since 2014, Citi’s support has also helped No Kid Hungry provide up to 290 million meals for the millions of kids facing hunger across America. In 2021, Citi encouraged clients to enroll their Citi credit cards in the Dine and Do Good campaign. For every $5 or more spent dining out, Citi donated $1 to No Kid Hungry until the $1 million donation goal was met. Additionally, on Giving Tuesday, Citi engaged colleagues and general consumers to help raise enough to provide more than 10 million meals in a single day, with Citi’s support alone 	No Kid Hungry is the only national campaign solely 
driving 40% of dollars raised.Aim to increase representation in our marketing• People	of	color	making	up	at	least		25%	of	casting	for	Citi	marketing• Aim	for	at	least	25%	of	brand	stories	highlighting	minority-owned	businesses	and	organizations	annuallyTo	cultivate	greater	diversity	and	inclusivity	in	our	marketing	and	communications,	we	collaborated	with	Getty	Images	to	develop	Diversity,	Equity	&	Inclusion	(DE&I)	Imagery	Toolkits.	Each	toolkit	harnesses	out	these	toolkits	in	2021,	including	in	the	United	States,	and	will	launch	in	additional	markets	in	2022.	The	toolkits	feature	country-specific	data	and	consumer	insights	to	capture	cultural	and	regional	nuances,	and	custom	training	is	provided	to	Citi	employees	for	each	market.	The	toolkits	will	be	available	to	the	public	on	the	Getty	Images	DE&I	Imagery	Toolkit	hub.	materials	and	disclosures.	In	addition,	Personal	Banking	&	Wealth	Management	has	a	global	approach	for	handling	customer	complaints	and	concerns	in	a	timely	and	effective	manner,	in	line	with	our	commitment	to	provide	financial	services	responsibly	and	treat	customers	fairly. Getty	Images’	proprietary	data	(Visual	GPS)	and	Kantar’s	Global	MONITOR	research	to	provide	marketers,	communicators	and	creatives	with	useful	insights	to	create	authentic	and	multifaceted	depictions	of	people	in	our	global	marketing	and	communications.	We	began	rolling	dedicated to ending childhood hunger. These	initiatives	are	just	some	examples	of	our	firm-wide	commitment	to	promote	activities	that	are	in	the	best	interests	of	our	clients.	More	broadly,	new	products	are	approved	by	cross-functional	committees	that	include	senior	executives	from	Risk,	Legal,	our	Independent	Compliance	Risk	Management	team	and	other	relevant	units,	supported	by	specialists	from	Consumer	Fairness,	as	needed.	Citi	also	does	periodic	testing	or	monitoring	of	marketing	
Eliminating Overdraft Fees for Our Customers’ Financial WellnessCiti recently announced plans to eliminate overdraft fees, returned item fees and overdraft protection transfer fees for U.S. Retail Banking consumers by Summer 2022. This makes Citi the only top-five U.S. bank (based on assets*) to completely eliminate these fees, and it demonstrates our commitment to expanding access to inclusive banking products and services that can help advance economic progress, especially for underbanked and unbanked populations. For 20 years, we have put measures in place to minimize overdraft fees for our consumers in order to put their financial wellness first. In addition to the upcoming changes, Citi will also continue to offer a robust suite of overdraft protection transfer services for our consumers including: • Overdraft Protection Transfer Services: Citi offers two services that help consumers avoid checking account overdrafts and retutrned items — Safety Check and Checking Plus® (variable rate) line of credit. The fees associated with these services will also be eliminated.    • Access Account Package: Citi’s industry-leading, checkless account package with low or avoidable monthly charges provides consumers with a simple, transparent way to manage their finances and systemically limits point-of-sale, ATM and ACH transactions that could cause negative balances.• Common Sense Protection Measures: Citi will not authorize ATM or point-of-sale debit transactions in cases when funds are not available.• Low Balance Alerts: Consumers can enroll in Low Balance Alerts via their account online or through the Citi Mobile® App. The elimination of overdraft fees complements many of our firm-wide Action for Racial Equity efforts in the United States that aim to expand banking and credit for communities of color. *	https://www.bankrate.com/banking/biggest-banks-in-america/.CITI’S TREATING CUSTOMERS FAIRLY PRINCIPLESWe aim to deliver products and services that provide value, clarity and dependability, guided by the Treating Customers Fairly principles that define the standards for our products and services. These principles include:Works as described: Consumers can predict how products and services will work.Appropriate: Consumers can rely on Citi to offer appropriate products and services that meet their needs.Value: Consumers receive value that is reasonably related to the cost of the products and services. Ease of understanding: Consumers understand the terms and conditions of the products and services (particularly limitations and exclusions). 
Treating Customers FairlyThrough	Citi’s	commitment	to	our	Treating	Customers	Fairly	principles	and	our	Global	Consumer	Fairness	Policy,	we	strive	to	earn	and	maintain	the	public’s	trust	by	adhering	to	high	ethical	standards	in	conducting	our	business.The	Global	Consumer	Fairness	Policy	provides	a	framework	for	reviewing	consumer	fairness	concerns	and	a	sustainable	model	for	managing	emerging	risks.	The	policy	covers	all	aspects	of	the	consumer	product	and	services	life	cycle,	including	new	product	development,	marketing,	sales	(including	variable	incentive	compensation),	underwriting	and	onboarding,	as	well	as	all	other	stages.	There	are	established,	formalized	escalation	processes	to	Citi’s	governance	committees	and	Board	of	Directors	that	facilitate	consistent,	timely	and	appropriate	identification,	analysis	and	escalation	of	potential	consumer	fairness	and	reputational	and	franchise	risk	issues.	In	relation	to	designing	variable	incentive	plans,	we	consider	a	number	of	factors,	including	whether	plans	align	with	our	Treating	Customers	Fairly	principles.	For	example,	we	leverage	client	satisfaction	metrics,	where	available,	along	with	other	product-based	metrics,	to	incentivize	achieving	business	results	that	adhere	to	internal	policies	and	our	Code	of	Conduct.	We	routinely	evaluate	incentive	plans,	training	content,	controls,	monitoring	results	and	oversight	activities	to	maintain	a	sales	force	that	delivers	on	Citi’s	commitment	to	serving	our	customers	with	fairness,	value,	clarity	and	dependability.As	part	of	the	program,	Personal	Banking	&	Wealth	Management	and	Institutional	Clients	Group	employees	complete	annual	ensure	they	understand	how	to	identify	issues	of	fairness	and	how	fairness	influences	real-world	results.	The	2021	course	was	launched	to	more	than	95,000	Citi	employees	globally.	We	also	have	measures	in	place	to	monitor	sales	practices,	including	auditing	and	metrics	that	assess	client	risk	profiles.	When	appropriate,	we	proactively	contact	delinquent	clients,	using	their	credit	risk	profile	and	previous	payment	performance	to	determine	how	quickly	and	how	often	to	contact	them.	We	ensure	that	contact	strategies	are	vetted	for	privacy	and	fairness	considerations	before	implementation.The	Global	Financial	Access	Policy	is	a	key	component	of	our	commitment	to	fair	and	equitable	access	to	products	and	services.	This	policy	establishes	the	guiding	principles	and	minimum	standards	for	fair,	equitable	and	nondiscriminatory	access	to	credit.	Further,	it	prohibits	discrimination	against	actual	or	prospective	clients	on	the	basis	of	race,	ethnicity,	sex	(which	encompasses	gender	as	well	as	sexual	orientation,	gender	identity	and	gender	expression),	religion,	national	origin,	disability	or	other	prohibited	factors.	This	commitment	is	backed	by	training,	processes,	controls	and	oversight	to	prevent	discrimination.	In	addition,	we	continually	work	to	understand	evolving	discrimination	risks	and	update	our	approach	to	preventing	such	risks	in	our	business	strategies,	as	well	as	in	the	design	and	delivery	of	our	products	and	services.True	to	our	commitment	to	responsible	finance,	we	hold	an	annual	Fair	and	Inclusive	Banking	offsite	with	senior	management	from	across	the	company,	to	deepen	their	understanding	of	fair	lending,	consumer	fairness	and	accessibility.	
Human	Rights
Citi’s rigorous human rights policies, standards and due diligence practices guide our business and lending decisions. We consistently engage with our employees, suppliers, peers and industry experts, as well as civil society organizations focused on our clients and the projects we finance, to advance the protection of human rights.Our Commitment to Respect Human Rights We	are	committed	to	respecting	human	rights	wherever	we	do	business.	We	engage	human	rights	experts,	clients	and	peers	to	support	our	efforts	to	respect	human	rights	in	line	with	the	UN	Guiding	Principles	on	Business	and	Human	Rights	—	a	global	framework	for	preventing	and	addressing	the	risk	of	adverse	impacts	on	human	rights	linked	to	business	activity.	The	UN	Guiding	Principles	draw	upon	existing	international	human	rights	instruments	whose	principles	Citi	has	endorsed,	such	as	those	in	the	UN	Universal	Declaration	of	Human	Rights	and	the	International	Labour	Organization’s	(ILO)	Core	Conventions.	To	illustrate	our	implementation	of	the	UN	Guiding	Principles,	we	have	mapped	how	this	ESG	Report	aligns	with	the	UN	Guiding	Principles	Reporting	Framework	(see	index).Citi	regularly	updates	our	policies	and	practices	to	strengthen	our	human	rights	due	diligence.	During	the	development	and	subsequent	updates	of	our	Statement	on	Human	Rights,	which	we	first	adopted	in	2007,	we	engaged	internal	and	external	stakeholders	to	help	assess	our	actual	and	potential	human	rights	impacts	and	to	identify	the	most	salient	human	rights	risks	faced	by	our	employees,	workers	connected	to	our	supply	chain	and	individuals	who	might	be	affected	by	our	clients’	operations.Citi’s	Environmental	and	Social	Risk	Management	(ESRM)	Policy,	summarized	in	our	Environmental	and	Social	Policy	Framework,	guides	our	approach	to	assessing	environmental	and	social	risks	related	to	financing	our	clients’	business	activities.	For	more	information	about	our	ESRM	Policy	and	our	related	due	diligence	processes,	see	the	Environmental	and	Social	Risk	Management	section	of	this	report.We	regularly	review	and	update	our	ESRM	Policy	to	ensure	that	it	reflects	our	most	recent	understanding	of	potential	environmental	and	social	risks.	For	example,	during	2021,	we	updated	the	Policy	to	include	a	formal	prohibition	against	financing	for	companies	whose	primary	business	is	constructing	or	operating	private	prisons.	Although	we	do	not	have	such	clients	directly	connected	to	private	prisons,	we	decided	to	formalize	this	policy	prohibition	for	the	future	in	alignment	with	our	Action for Racial Equity	commitments.	ELEVATING ENVIRONMENTAL JUSTICE CONCERNS FOR ENHANCED DUE DILIGENCEOver the last several years, there has been growing global acknowledgment that climate change is a human rights issue. In 2021, the UN Human Rights Council recognized the right to a healthy environment as a stand-alone human right. Citi has also recognized for many years the right to a healthy environment and the need to evaluate the potential environmental risks to communities surrounding the industrial developments we finance. For example, due diligence related to environmental justice concerns is critical for identifying projects with significant impacts to local communities from fossil-fuel-related activities, including extraction, refinement and transportation or air and water pollution due to heavy industry. Environmental justice is also important as we consider low-carbon projects with positive environmental benefits that might have negative impacts on local communities. For example, a dam construction project to create renewable hydro-electric power could threaten human rights if it is sited without consideration of the rights of Indigenous or other marginalized peoples. While we want to champion projects that help combat climate change, we need to keep our eyes open to other adverse impacts that may occur, particularly in relation to already marginalized communities.   As of 2020, we formalized environmental justice as a specific risk within  the Areas of High Caution section of our ESRM Policy that triggers enhanced due diligence. 
Our Salient Human  Rights RisksCiti	has	spent	more	than	a	decade	seeking	to	understand	and	mitigate	the	most	salient	human	rights	risks	related	to	our	business	—	those	that	pose	the	greatest	risk	to	people	—	including	the	activities	of	our	clients	and	other	business	partners.The	most	severe	potential	risks	posed	to	people	by	our	clients’	activities,	particularly	in	the	context	of	project-related	finance,	are	identified	under	our	ESRM	Policy.	Our	work	to	address	these	risks	began	in	2003	when	we	helped	to	found	the	Equator	Principles	(EP)	framework	to	enhance	and	standardize	risk	management	across	the	banking	sector,	established	an	internal	ESRM	team,	and	began	developing	our	risk	identification	and	mitigation	policies	and	procedures.	While	our	formal	ESRM	processes	give	us	the	most	leverage	when	we	are	directly	financing	a	project,	we	also	screen	for	human	rights	risks	and	opportunities	to	engage	clients	in	other	types	of	corporate	financing	covered	by	our	ESRM	Policy	and	in	targeted	ESRM	portfolio	reviews	of	high	risk	sectors	or	geographies.	In	addition,	we	work	to	identify	and	address	salient	human	rights	risks	that	could	arise	in	other	areas	of	our	value	chain	such	as	our	supply	chain,	our	workforce	and	our	consumer	banking	activities.	For	a	full	list	of	our	salient	human	rights	risks	and	the	stakeholders	they	may	impact,	see	the	table	on	the	following	page.Efforts	to	achieve	racial	equity	and	promote	diversity	and	inclusion	relate	directly	to	the	protection	of	human	rights,	as	these	efforts	seek	to	remedy	disparities	and	protect	individuals	from	discrimination	on	the	basis	of	essential	characteristics.	We	have	identified	salient	human	rights	risks	in	this	area,	including	discrimination	in	the	provision	of	financial	services	and	threats	to	diversity	and	inclusion.	You	can	learn	about	Citi’s	Action for Racial Equity	commitments,	established	in	2020,	and	additional	inclusion	initiatives	related	to	our	supply	chain,	our	workforce	and	the	communities	we	serve	throughout	this	report.For	human	rights	concerns	related	to	a	particular	client,	transaction	or	portfolio,	we	escalate	those	issues	to	the	relevant	internal	Reputation	Risk	Committee.	In	addition,	in	2021,	we	established	an	Asia	Pacific	Human	Rights	Task	Force,	comprised	of	senior	bankers	and	risk	managers.	The	aim	of	the	task	force	is	to	enable	a	more	standardized	approach	to	addressing	salient	human	rights	risks	that	arise	in	that	region.	For	more	information	about	our	governance	of	ESG	issues,	including	human	rights,	see	the	ESG	Governance	at	Citi	section.	
Salient Human Rights Risks: Stakeholder ImpactsThis table illustrates which stakeholders could be impacted by the human rights risks we have identified as most salient to our company. Rows shaded in gray indicate risks related to the Areas of High Caution defined in our ESRM Policy and trigger additional due diligence for project transactions, general corporate purpose transactions and regular reviews of client relationships. Additional context about our approach to mitigate these risks and related due diligence processes can be found throughout this report, in our Statement on Human Rights and in our Environmental and Social Policy Framework. Human Rights RisksCiti’s EmployeesSuppliers’ EmployeesCustomers  and ClientsThose Affected by Clients’ OperationsAdequate standard of living;  right to propertyConflict riskDiscrimination in the provision  of financial servicesDiversity and inclusion;  discrimination in the workplaceIndigenous PeoplesInformation security; privacyLabor practices  (including modern slavery)ResettlementSecurity practices
Contents 	ESG at Citi 	Sustainable Finance 	Sustainable Progress 	Equitable & Resilient Communities 	Talent & DEI 	RiskManagement&ResponsibleBusiness 	AppendicesAddressing Forced Labor in Malaysia  Migrant laborers have the potential to become the victims of forced labor practices, due largely to the significant debt they incur through the process of recruitment, obtaining travel documentation and gaining entry into a foreign country. During 2021, this issue gained heightened attention due to the increased focus of the U.S. Customs and Border Patrol on migrant working conditions, with the agency issuing a number of Withhold Release Orders refusing entry of products into the U.S. market that were suspected of being made in whole or in part by forced labor. This included several Malaysian companies involved in the manufacture of personal protective equipment and palm oil products.   When migrant workers arrive in Malaysia, they sometimes find that the salaries they earn are too low to cover the cost of repaying recruitment fees and expenses. Compounding the problem, their employers often withhold employee identity documents. This can put migrant workers in a precarious position as they are dependent on their job to repay their debts and, if they face challenging working conditions, they may be unable to look for other employment given the inaccessibility of their work permits and identity documents.  Citi has a longstanding prohibition against providing financing to any company that uses forced labor practices as defined by the ILO’s 11 Forced Labour Indicators. The Citi Malaysia team partnered with our global ESRM team to conduct a portfolio review in Malaysia to determine which Citi clients may have higher risk for potential forced labor practices and whether those clients have policies and procedures in place to address that risk. Out of hundreds of corporate and subsidiary client relationships reviewed, we identified 29 in higher-risk sectors with high migrant labor employee populations that required enhanced ESRM due diligence to assess client practices against international labor practices. In situations where this review uncovered high risks that were not adequately addressed through company policies and practices, or when credible accusations of forced labor existed, we engaged those clients on improvements needed. When necessary, we required clients to bring in labor rights experts to audit and suggest improvements for their policies and procedures, and we set up regular meetings to assess progress to close these gaps. While this is an important step, we also acknowledge that due to the long history of precarious migrant labor working conditions in Malaysia, and in other countries that rely on similar systems, it will take time and continued work to raise awareness to change ingrained practices. With this in mind, Citi Malaysia and the ESRM team took an additional step to educate clients and raise awareness by working with a forced labor expert to develop a webinar for our Malaysian clients. This webinar focused on international standards based on the ILO’s Forced Labour Indicators, risk identification methodologies and best practices for preventing forced labor in corporate operations and supply chains, such as employer payment of recruitment fees, reimbursement of debt, ethical recruitment procedures, employee access to identity documents, and proper pay, overtime management and grievance mechanisms. More than 100 clients in Malaysia attended this webinar and it was very well received.  Learn more about this issue on the U.S. Customs and Border Protection and ILO websites. 
Respecting the  Human Rights of  Our EmployeesWe	expect	every	Citi	employee	to	adhere	to	our	Code	of	Conduct,	which	includes	a	commitment	to	human	rights,	and	to	participate	in	relevant	training.	Our	Code	of	Conduct	prohibits	unlawful	discrimination,	harassment	and	other	behavior	that	infringes	on	individual	rights.	As	stated	in	our	Code	of	Conduct,	Citi	expects	all	employees,	as	well	as	suppliers,	clients	and	community	partners	globally	to	respect	the	principle	of	nondiscrimination.Citi	has	identified	workplace	discrimination	and	threats	to	diversity	and	inclusion	as	salient	human	rights	risks	for	our	company.	As	such,	respect	for	diversity	and	inclusion	is	a	high	priority	wherever	we	operate.	It	can	become	a	particular	concern	in	countries	where	there	is	no	legal	protection	against	discrimination	based	on	gender,	gender	identity,	race,	ethnicity,	age,	religion,	physical	or	mental	disability	or	medical	condition,	or	sexual	orientation,	in	addition	to	a	range	of	other	essential	characteristics	inherent	to	identity	and	personhood.	Citi	prohibits	discrimination	and	harassment	of	our	employees	in	all	forms,	regardless	of	whether	or	not	individual	protections	are	legally	mandated	in	the	countries	and	communities	where	we	operate.	In	fact,	we	know	that	even	in	locations	with	anti-discrimination	laws,	there	is	still	a	need	for	companies	to	ensure	that	they	are	doing	their	part	to	respect	individual	rights.In	2021,	we	established	a	team	in	the	United	States	to	identify	and	accelerate	hiring	of	diverse	talent.	We	also	strive	to	increase	the	diversity	of	our	workforce	through	the	use	of	diverse	slates	in	our	hiring	process	and	by	setting	aspirational	goals	related	to	diverse	representation	for	Assistant	Vice	President	to	Managing	Director	levels.	Citi	has	also	signed	theHuman	Rights	Campaign’s	Business	Statement	Opposing	Anti-LGBTQ+	State	Legislation.	Learn	more	about	our	diversity,	equity	and	inclusion	efforts	in	the	Talent	and	Diversity,	Equity	&	Inclusion	section.Freedom of AssociationCiti	has	employees	who	are	represented	by	unions	and	works	councils	in	a	number	of	countries	where	we	operate.	In	addition,	a	portion	of	our	employee	population	is	covered	by	collective	bargaining	agreements.	We	engage	directly	with	our	employees	and	through	these	associations	to	discuss	issues	such	as	health	and	safety,	remuneration,	work	hours,	training,	career	development,	work	time	flexibility	and	equal	opportunity.	Information	related	to	freedom	of	association	is	communicated	to	employees	through	various	mediums,	including	employee	handbooks,	our	intranet	and	employee	emails.Extending Respect for Human Rights Through Our SuppliersOur	nondiscrimination	policies	extend	to	Citi’s	suppliers,	and	we	do	not	work	with	suppliers	that	are	discovered	to	discriminate	on	the	basis	of	personal	characteristics,	such	as	gender,	race	and	sexual	orientation.	Since	1977,	we	have	used	our	supplier	diversity	program	to	empower	communities	around	the	world.	We	communicate	our	approach	to	human	rights	to	our	suppliers	in	our	Statement	of	Supplier	Principles.	Our	approach	is	reinforced	by	our	Corporate	Responsibility	Questionnaire	(CRQ).	This	questionnaire	helps	our	procurement	team	determine	how	potential	and	current	suppliers	manage	environmental	and	social	issues,	including	human	rights	issues.Building	on	our	prior	efforts, we	have	updated	and	expanded	our	CRQ	to	improve	supplier	engagement	and	evaluation	of	their	operations.	The	latest	assessment	expands	on	our	previous	questions	in	the	areas	of	modern	slavery,	supplier	diversity,	environmental	sustainability,	corporate	responsibility,	labor	rights	and	workplace	safety.	In	addition,	we	have	introduced	additional	screening	related	to	modern	slavery	for	suppliers	in	high-risk	sectors	and	countries.	Citi	is	committed	to	SDG 8,	which	aims	to	promote sustained, inclusive and sustainable economic growth, full and productive employment and decent work for all.	This	is	exemplified	by	our	work	to	fight	modern	slavery	in	our	value	chain,	along	with	our	related	reporting,	policies,	due	diligence	and	risk	assessments.	In	particular,	our	initiatives	in	these	areas	address	target	8.7,	which	includes	a	mandate	to	eradicate forced labor, end modern slavery and human trafficking	and	end child labor in all its forms.	SDG Goal 8: Decent Work and Economic Growth MODERN SLAVERY DISCLOSURESEach year, we disclose our approach to identifying and mitigating the risks of modern slavery in our operations (including client transactions) and in our supply chain. The disclosures cover information about our governance and policies related to modern slavery, risk assessment and due diligence processes, and training. In 2021, we released our first Modern Slavery Statement specific to Australia.
Contents 	ESG at Citi 	Sustainable Finance 	Sustainable Progress 	Equitable & Resilient Communities 	Talent & DEI 	RiskManagement&ResponsibleBusiness 	Appendices
Respecting Human Rights in Our Financing DecisionsEffectively	evaluating	human	rights	risks	related	to	our	clients	and	the	projects	we	finance	is	challenging.	We	work	diligently	to	meet	this	challenge	and	respect	the	human	rights	of	the	individuals	and	communities	impacted	by	the	clients	we	finance	and	their	projects.Such	examples	illustrate	our	ability	to	proactively	avoid	certain	business	transactions	with	adverse	impacts	on	human	rights,	but	other	situations	can	occur	in	which	the	link	between	our	financial	services	and	human	rights	impacts	is	less	direct.	That	complexity	may	mean	we	have	less	leverage,	and	it	diminishes	our	ability	to	ensure	that	on-the-ground	outcomes	are	consistent	with	Citi’s	values.	In	these	instances,	we	work	to	improve	our	clients’	awareness	and	business	practices.	In	addition,	where	a	transaction’s	financial	and	legal	structure	allows	it,	we	put	loan	covenants	in	place	and	monitor	mitigation	efforts	through	our	ESRM	systems	and	corrective	action	plans.Due Diligence in Client TransactionsCiti	has	thousands	of	corporate	and	institutional	clients.	The	UN	Guiding	Principles	acknowledge	the	challenges	presented	by	extensive	business	relationships,	and	we	have	adopted	the	approach	set	out	in	the	UN	Guiding	Principles	of	prioritizing	our	due	diligence	and	risk	mitigation	first	in	areas	where	the	risk	of	adverse	human	rights	impact	is	most	significant	from	the	perspective	of	the	people	who	may	be	affected.We	use	our	ESRM	Policy,	where	applicable,	to	assess	and	manage	risks	consistently	and	to	evaluate	client	operations	against	a	common	set	of	standards	grounded	in	international	best	practice,	including	the	UN	Guiding	Principles	on	Business	and	Human	Rights,	ILO	Forced	Labour	Indicators,	Voluntary	Principles	on	Security	and	Human	Rights,	and	International	Finance	Corporation	(IFC)	Performance	Standards,	among	other	international	human	rights	norms	and	emerging	standards.	Our	ESRM	team	screens	transactions	covered	by	our	ESRM	Policy	during	the	initial	marketing	We	have	established	policies	and	practices	that	help	us	influence	the	protection	of	human	rights.	For	instance,	our	anti-money	laundering	efforts	help	us	prevent	criminally	sourced	funds	—	including	funds	associated	with	human	rights	abuses,	such	as	human	trafficking	—	from	passing	through	our	bank.	Disrupting	the	flow	of	money	to	those	perpetrating	human	rights	abuses	and	denying	those	abusers	safe	harbor	for	illicit	proceeds	tied	to	corruption	or	human	rights	violations	are	effective	ways	to	undermine	their	efforts.Additionally,	under	our	U.S.	Commercial	Firearms	Policy,	adopted	in	2018,	we	require	clients	or	partners	that	are	U.S.	firearms	retailers	or	firearms	manufacturers	that	sell	through	U.S.	retail	channels	to	adhere	to	a	set	of	best	practices	regarding	the	sale	of	firearms.	For	retailers,	these	practices	include	selling	firearms	only	to	individuals	who	have	completed	a	background	check,	not	selling	high-capacity	magazines	or	bump	stocks	(which	modify	semiautomatic	firearms	to	fire	faster,	at	rates	comparable	to	fully	automatic	firearms),	and	selling	firearms	to	individuals	under	age	21	only	if	they	have	received	firearms	safety	training	(e.g.,	as	part	of	active	or	former	military	or	law	enforcement	employment	or	via	hunter	safety	training).	For	manufacturers,	best	practice	entails	selling	firearms	only	to	retailers	that	follow	these	same	practices.
phase	to	identify	potential	heightened	environmental	or	social	risks	related	to	the	client.	Our	policy	prohibits	financing	any	project	for	which	our	due	diligence	identifies	the	use	of	forced	labor,	harmful	or	exploitative	child	labor,	or	when	the	relevant	labor	forces	have	been	subjected	to	human	trafficking.	Under	the	ESRM	Policy,	Citi	screens	for	human	rights	risks	in	project-related	transactions	and clients	subject	to	ESRM	sector-specific	requirements.	In	addition,	the	ESRM	Policy	includes	Areas	of	High	Caution,	which	identify	flags	for	heightened	human	rights	risk	factors	to	escalate	to	the	specialized	ESRM	team	for	review	regardless	of	financial	product	or	sector.Protection of Indigenous Rights  in Latin America Citi understands that Indigenous Peoples’ distinct identities, languages, beliefs, cultural values, lands and use of natural resources may be under threat, representing a higher degree of vulnerability. Activities that may impact Indigenous People have long been acknowledged as an Area of High Caution under our ESRM Policy, and require enhanced due diligence.  In 2021, we put additional emphasis on the evaluation of our Latin American oil and gas clients and mining clients during new transactions and annual credit reviews, to continue identifying clients with operations that may overlap Indigenous territories. All clients were assessed on their community engagement and biodiversity management practices. When overlap with Indigenous territories was identified, Citi engaged clients to assess how they incorporated free, prior and informed consent into their engagement practices with Indigenous Peoples.If,	during	our	initial	screening	for	a	transaction,	we	find	a	risk	of	adverse	impacts,	we	conduct	more	in-depth	due	diligence,	and	we	evaluate	the	client’s	commitment	and	capacity	to	avoid,	mitigate	and/or	manage	those	impacts	in	accordance	with	international	industry	best	practices	and	human	rights	norms	and	the	client’s	willingness	to	continuously	improve.	We	escalate	the	most	challenging	cases	with	the	highest	potential	for	adverse	impacts	to	senior	business	and	risk	managers	for	collective	discussion	on	the	risks	and	the	client’s	commitment	and	capacity.	In	some	cases,	senior	management	will	conclude	that	the	likelihood	for	adverse	impacts	is	too	great	—	posing	an	imminent	threat	to	people	or	communities	—	and	we	will	decline	involvement	in	the	transaction.	In	severe	circumstances,	where we	cannot	otherwise	effectively	influence	different	human	rights	outcomes	despite	our	best	efforts	of	sustained	engagement,	we	will	end	the	client	relationship.	This	is	a	move	we	take	very	seriously,	since	we	recognize	that	it	can	have	a	number	of	ramifications,	including	removing	any	leverage	we	might	otherwise	have	had	to	improve	practices	over	time	through	constructive	engagement.After	the	financial	close	of	a	transaction	or	a	client	onboarding	that	was	subject	to	a	time-bound	environmental	and	social	action	plan,	we	monitor	the	company’s	implementation	of	those	actions.	For	project-related	transactions	this	often	involves	the	retention	of	an	independent	environmental	and	social	risk	consultant	who	periodically	reports	to	lenders	after	on-the-ground	audits.	In	addition,	for	non-project	related	transactions	where	human	rights	risks	have	been	flagged	for	ongoing	monitoring,	our	ESRM	team	uses	annual	client	credit	reviews	as	touchpoints	to	assess	progress	on	human-rightsrelated	issues.
Contents 	ESG at Citi 	Sustainable Finance 	Sustainable Progress 	Equitable & Resilient Communities 	Talent & DEI 	RiskManagement&ResponsibleBusiness 	AppendicesIdentifying Human Rights Risks in Transactions Citi’s ESRM team screens transactions under the ESRM Policy for potential human rights risks. The specific types of human rights risks we screen for are outlined in the table below. Further data related to ESRM Policy screening can be found in the Environmental and Social Risk Management section.When human rights risks are identified for a project-related transaction during screening, the ESRM team may either decline to approve the opportunity outright, if the risks are deemed too high to address, or we may outline what further due diligence would be needed for the transaction to proceed. There are a number of reasons why initial opportunities may not move forward, including a client declining to move forward with our due diligence review requirements.If an opportunity progresses to the due diligence phase, our requirements include gaining access to project information that allows us to benchmark according to relevant standards, such as the IFC Performance Standards, UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights, ILO Forced Labour Indicators and the Voluntary Principles on Security and Human Rights among other international human rights norms. In project-related lending this due diligence would be supported by a qualified independent consultant. In circumstances where a project is not aligned with applicable international standards, we will not approve financing until we are satisfied that the client has appropriate plans and capacity to mitigate project risks. For example, in 2021 we declined a project-related financing opportunity for an industrial agricultural project in Africa with concerns related to involuntary resettlement, child labor and biodiversity impacts. For general corporate-level transactions (e.g., renewing revolving credit facilities, issuing corporate bonds) that have elevated human rights risks, we have less direct leverage than in project-related financing, but we review our clients’ policies and practices relevant to human rights issues to evaluate their ability to avoid, manage and minimize these risks. We also engage our clients to understand their implementation of those policies and whether they have appropriate staffing to manage these issues, and we review and encourage strong disclosures of human rights policies. Human Rights Risks Screened During Transaction ReviewsConflict Risk: Project-induced conflict risk, which may be tied to competition for resources or landCultural Heritage: Properties and sites of archaeological, historical, cultural, artistic and religious significance; unique environmental features and cultural knowledge; intangible forms of culture embodying traditional lifestyles Environmental Justice: Potential environmental risks to historically marginalized communities, especially surrounding industrial developmentsIndigenous Peoples: Concerns regarding the extent to which Indigenous communities are consulted during project development and have consented to impacts to their land, livelihood and cultural heritageLabor Risks: Risks related to labor forces used in the construction of projects or other operations, including those associated with forced labor, child labor and human trafficking by project operators and their subcontractorsResettlement: Resettlement of local communities, including Indigenous groups, as necessary for project implementation; requires resettlement action plans and should include efforts to gain the free, prior and informed consent of Indigenous communitiesSecurity Practices: Concerns about how project sponsors engage with public or private security forces protecting project sitesWater: Project-related impacts that hinder access to water or negatively affect water quality for local communities
Providing Access  to RemedyThe	UN	Guiding	Principles	call	on	governments	and	companies	to	play	their	respective	roles	in	ensuring	that	victims	of	human	rights	abuse	have	access	to	effective	remedy.	Remedy	can	take	many	different	forms,	including	apologies,	financial	or	nonfinancial	compensation,	or	efforts	to	prevent	future	harm	through	policy	commitments	and	changes	in	operational	practice.	The	purpose	of	remedy	is	to	help	make	victims	whole	again	or	to	restore	them,	as	much	as	possible,	to	their	lives	and	enjoyment	of	their	rights	before	those	rights	were	violated.	Remedy	can	also	help	ensure	that	they	and	others	will	not	suffer	similar	harm	in	the	future.When	we	are	made	aware	of	a	potentially	severe	adverse	human	rights	impact,	our	approach	to	remedy	usually	involves	working	with	clients	to	ensure	they	have	the	right	policies	in	place	and	that	channels	are	available	to	enable	victims	to	lodge	grievances.	In	addition,	in	line	with	our	ability	to	prioritize	adverse	impacts	based	on	severity,	we	will	encourage	clients	to	follow	up	on	allegations	and	to	have	established	processes	to	offer	remedy	or	to	cooperate	with	authorities	to	make	sure	effective	remedy	is	provided.	For	example,	in	2021,	as	the	result	of	our	portfolio	review	in	Malaysia	related	to	forced	labor	and	related	client	engagement,	several	clients	have	improved	their	practices	in	this	area,	or	are	in	the	process	of	doing	so,	by	providing	workers	compensation	for	recruitment	fees	and	constructing	better	accommodations	to	house	those	working	for	them.	Learning and Engagement  Engaging Stakeholders To	ensure	that	we	are	living	up	to	our	commitment	to	respect	human	rights	and	anticipate	emerging	risks,	we	regularly communicate	our	approach	externally,	engage	with	stakeholders	on	their	issues	of	concern	and	work	to	advance	respect	for	human	rights	more	broadly.	During	2021,	we	led	an	Equator	Principles	Association	collaboration	with	Shift	to	develop	enhanced	guidance	for	EP	financial	institutions	for	evaluating	adequate	grievance	mechanisms	and	access	to	remedy.	Citi	is	also	a	member	of	the	Shift	Financial	Institutions	Practitioners	Circle,	through	which	we	participate	in	workshops	related	to	skill	building	on	human	rights	due	diligence	for	ESRM	practitioners	and	deep	dives	into	emerging	salient	human	rights	risks.	This	collaboration	has	helped	us	refine	our	approach	to	forced	labor	and	human	rights	in	the	Asia	Pacific	region.	In	addition,	we	continued	to	pay	close	attention	to	human	rights	issues	raised	by	stakeholders	regarding	specific	industries.	In	2021,	concerns	were	raised	by	stakeholders	relating	to	the	oil	and	gas,	manufacturing,	technology	and	palm	oil	sectors.	We	engage	with	these	industries	directly	through	client	relationships,	stakeholder	meetings	and	active	participation	in	relevant	initiatives.	For	instance,	our	participation	in	the	Roundtable	on	Sustainable	Palm	Oil	enables	us	to	engage	with	multiple	stakeholders	connected	to	the	palm	oil	value	chain,	to	improve	the	collective	effort	to	reduce	human	rights	risks	associated	with	this	commodity.	In	addition,	our	touch	points	during	annual	reviews	allow	us	to	evaluate	human	rights	risks	and	management	through	client	engagements.Although	banks	are	often	under	pressure	to	disclose	specific	findings	related	to	client	projects,	we	are	bound	by	legal	requirements	related	to	confidentiality	that	limit	our	ability	to	disclose	such	information	without	client	consent.	As	a	result,	addressing	requests	for	transparency	is	a	balancing	act	between	protecting	the	confidentiality	of	our	clients’	information	and	disclosing	information	to stakeholders	as	appropriate	to	advance	the	protection	of	human	rights.	Reporting Mechanisms  for StakeholdersOur	Ethics	Hotline	provides	a	way	for	our	employees,	suppliers	and	other	external	stakeholders,	including	the	public,	to	report	concerns	about	unethical	behavior	to	Citi’s	Ethics	Office.	Stakeholders	and	whistleblowers	can	report	violations	to	the	Ethics	Hotline	using	a	24-hour	phone	line,	email	address,	fax	line,	website	or	physical	mailing	address.In	addition,	for	project-related	finance,	we	apply	the	Equator	Principles	to	assess	and	manage	environmental	and	social	risks.	This	includes	an	assessment	of	the	project	sponsor’s	stakeholder	engagement	process,	as	well	as	its	operational-level	grievance	mechanisms	that	allow	affected	communities	to	raise	concerns	proactively	with	the	project	developers.Employee TrainingHuman	rights	content	is	integrated	into	the	training	we	provide	for	the	employees	responsible	for	implementing	our	ESRM	Policy	and	in	our	Code	of	Conduct	training,	which	is	required	of	all	employees.	In	recent	years,	we	have	developed	a	comprehensive	training	module	on	modern	slavery,	which	we	provided	to	our	Resource	Management	Organization	(our	employees	responsible	for	procurement	and	supply	chain	activities).	In	2021,	we	updated	that	training	with	the	goal	of	expanding	it	to	other	functions	globally.
Responsible	SourcingAs a global firm that engages with thousands of suppliers across the world, our commitment to responsible sourcing can have wide-ranging effects. Citi’s goal is to have a positive impact on people, the environment and the economy through our supply chain decisions. We seek to work with suppliers that share our values, and we set high standards for performance, measurement and responsible business practices.Supplier PoliciesCiti has detailed standards and policies, which guide responsible sourcing initiatives and communicate our expectations related to environmental and social issues to our suppliers:• The Citi Statement of Supplier Principles outlines the foundational guidelines for our sustainable supply chain initiatives, including those related to human rights in the workplace, ethical business practices, implementation of required management systems and environmental sustainability.• The Citi Requirements for Suppliers provides detailed processes and procedures that our suppliers must follow for contractual compliance and facilitates awareness of other key Citi policy obligations.• We also ask suppliers to abide by the Citi Statement on Human Rights. For more information about our approach in this area, see the Human Rights section.Consistent with applicable modern slavery regulations, Citi publishes disclosures outlining our approach to identifying and mitigating the risks of modern slavery in our operations and supply chain.We	are	committed	to	providing	more	opportunities	for	certified	diverse	suppliers.	Citi’s	Supply	Chain	Development,	Inclusion	and	Sustainability	(SCDIS)	Program	provides	the	framework	and	governance	that	guide	Citi	employees	to	make	sourcing	decisions	that	support	inclusive	processes	and	increase	our	roster	of	diverse	suppliers.	Additionally,	the	SCDIS	Program	works	across	our	supply	chain	to	enhance	sustainability	practices,	while	mitigating	social	and	environmental	risks	for	all	suppliers.Supplier DiversityCiti	is	committed	to	integrating	supplier	diversity	across	our	entire	business.	Our	SCDIS	team	sets	clear	supplier	diversity	goals	and	embeds	them	in	our	sourcing	processes.	Every	bid	over	$250,000	requires	the	consideration	of	diverse	firms.	Promoting	the	inclusion	of	diverse	suppliers	in	the	bidding	process	helps	us	to	build	a	supplier	base	that	more	fully	represents	the	communities	we	serve.SPENDING WITH  TIER 1* DIVERSE SUPPLIERS$1,212M spent with Tier 1  diverse suppliers**$432M spent with Tier 1  Black-owned suppliers$172M spent with Tier 1  women-owned suppliers*	Tier	1	suppliers	are	those	Citi	procures	goods	and	services	from	directly.	**	This	includes	spend	with	many	types	of	diverse	suppliers,	including	Black-owned	and	women-owned	firms.Racial EquityOne	of	Citi’s	Action for Racial Equity		commitments	is	investment	in	Black	entrepreneurship,	which	includes	a	goal	to	increase	our	overall	spend	with	certified	diverse	suppliers	to	$1	billion	annually,	including	$250	million	with	Black-owned	firms.	We	achieved	over	$1	billion	in	diverse	supplier	spend	in	2021.	We	have	also	established	a	task	force	that	meets	bi-weekly	to	review	progress	against	our	supplier	diversity	goals,	evaluate	spend	with	diverse	suppliers	and	discuss	new	opportunities	with	broader	initiatives	across	the	company.In	2021,	we	introduced	more	than	200	diverse	suppliers,	who	have	expertise	in	information	technology	staffing,	learning	and	development,	customer	experience,	neurodiversity,	career	entry,	and	advertising	and	marketing,	to	Citi	business	leaders.			In	addition	to	increasing	our	spend with	diverse	suppliers,	we	have	an	Action for Racial Equity	commitment	to	strengthen	Citi’s	policies	and	practices	to	become	an	anti-racist	institution.	This	includes	expanding	Citi’s	capital	market	activities	with	minority-owned	broker-dealers	to	assist	with	business	and	franchise	development.	In	2021,	we	engaged	diverse	brokerdealers	to	participate	in	92%	of	Citi’s	benchmark	debt	issuances,	including	100%	of	our	USD	transactions.	During	the	year,	we	also	issued	our	first	Citi	Social	Finance	bond,	with	a	notional	value	of	$1	billion.	For	this	transaction,	we	worked	with	a	syndicate	of	minority-	and	women-owned	businesses,	of	which	Black-owned	brokerdealers	comprised	approximately	20%.	In	addition,	to	commemorate	Martin	Luther	King	Jr.	Day,	we	worked	exclusively	with	Black-owned	broker-dealers	to	syndicate	a	$2.5	billion	bond	issuance.	To	promote	additional	opportunities,	we	host	an	annual	breakfast,	during	which	our	diverse	broker-dealers	can	share	best	practices	and	network	with	Citi	leaders.	Women-Owned BusinessesCiti	is	committed	to	procuring	goods	and	services	from	women-owned	businesses	and	identifying	opportunities	for	these	firms,	with	an	emphasis	in	developing	markets.	In	2021,	we	procured	$172	million	in	goods	and	services	from	women-owned	businesses.During	2021,	Citi	participated	in	WEConnect	International	sessions	for	women-owned	businesses	globally,	that	emphasized	diversity	and	supply	chain	development	and	sustainability.	We	also	joined	WEConnect	matchmaker	and	supplier	showcase	sessions	in	Latin	America	that	enabled	women-owned	businesses	to	present	their	capabilities	and	make	connections	with	Citi’s	procurement	colleagues.	Similarly,	Citi	Indonesia	COLLABORATING TO BUILD SUPPLIER DIVERSITYwas	part	of	capacity-building	workshops	held	by	WEConnect	to	strengthen	market	access	for	women-owned	businesses.	We	worked	with	the	Women’s	Business	Enterprise	National	Council	(WBENC)	to	expand	our	Bridge	built	by	CitiSM	program,	a	lending	platform	that	connects	businesses	with	local	banks	for	loans.	Through	this	partnership,	Citi	collaborated	with	WBENC	to	identify	more	than	2,000	women-owned	businesses	based	in	locations	where	the	Bridge	built	by	Citi	program	lending	opportunity	is	available	to	them.	Additionally,	we	rolled	out	an	initiative	with	our	major	IT	suppliers	in	India	to	further	the	participation	of	women	in	technology.	This	included	sessions	with	suppliers	to	discuss	best	practices	for	recruitment,	hiring,	retention	and	career	progression	for	women,	as	well	as	a	“Return	to	Career”	program	focused	on	bringing	women	back	into	the	workforce	who	were	on	sabbatical	or	long	leave.	Our	efforts	to	support	women-owned	businesses	align	with	SDG 5: Achieve gender equality and empower all women and girls.	Our	work	in	this	area	helps	address	target	5.5,	which	aims	to	ensure women’s full and effective participation and equal opportunities for leadership at all levels of decision-making in political, economic, and public life.		 SDG Goal 5: Gender Equality Building Capabilities  of Diverse SuppliersThe	SCDIS	team	provides	U.S.-based	small	firms	and	women-,	veteran-,	disability-,	LGBTQ+-	and	minority-owned	businesses	access	to	business	opportunities,	training	and	mentoring.	Our	team	identifies	diverse	suppliers,	including	small	businesses	that	can	meet	our	supply	chain	needs,	then	subsequently	works	to	build	their	capabilities.In	2021,	we	established	our	MentorProtégé	program,	designed	to	strengthen	our	diverse	suppliers’	capabilities	and	expand	their	opportunities	both	inside	and	outside	Citi.	Through	this	program,	Citi	connects	established	Tier	1	suppliers	with	minority-,	Black-,	and/or	women-owned	Tier	2	suppliers	in	a	mentoring	relationship.	This	provides	smaller,	diverse	suppliers	with	an	opportunity	to	gain	valuable	experience	in	financial	services	and	build	important	skills	to	help	them	compete	in	the	marketplace.	One	successful	pairing	within	this	program	is	that	of	mentor	company	Tata	Consultancy	Services	(TCS),	a	Tier	1	supplier	offering	IT	&	Operations	services	to	Citi,	and	protégé	firm	Technology	Concepts	Group	International	(TCGi),	a	Black-,	woman-owned	supplier	that	provides	IT	services	to	TCS	for	the	benefit	of	Citi.	The	unique	element	of	this	pairing	is	that	TCS	has	contextualized	and	structured	the	mentorship	around	TCGi’s	current	challenges	and	shifted	gears	from	In addition to advancing our own supplier diversity, our SCDIS team engages with others to support broader supplier diversity efforts. Our memberships with mission-centric organizations include the National LGBT Chamber of Commerce, WEConnect International, WBENC and the National Minority Supplier Development Council (NMSDC) along with several of its global partners, including the Canadian Aboriginal and Minority Supplier Council, the South African Supplier Diversity Council, Minority Supplier Development UK and Supply Nation in Australia.
training	to	capability	building.	As	a result,	TCGi	is	building	holistic	expertise	including	technical,	functional	and	soft	skills.	We	continue	to	host	events	for	diverse	businesses	across	the	globe	to	share	best	practices	for	doing	business	with	Citi	and	other	large	companies.	Our	global	“Doing	Business	with	Citi”	session	is	open	to	any	supplier	affiliated	with	select	diversity	certification	agencies.	The	2021	event	had	nearly	700	attendees,	most	of	whom	were	diverse	suppliers.In	addition,	Citi	participated	in	the	NMSDC	Emerging	Entrepreneurs	Program,	which	includes	a	new	mentoring	approach	called	Success	Circles.	Entrepreneurs	are	placed	with	a	group	of	experts	who	use	their	collective	talents	and	connections	to	help	the	entrepreneurs	build	their	businesses.	Citi	also	provided	a	scholarship	to	the	Tuck	School	of	Business	Minority	Business	Enterprise	Program	as	part	of	this	initiative.	During	2021,	we	collaborated	with	the	New	York	&	New	Jersey	Minority	Supplier	Development	Council	to	host	the	11th	annual	Sustainability	Symposium,	where	Citi	hosted	and	moderated	a	Sustainability	panel.	Panelists	shared	perspectives	on	supply	chain	sustainability,	ESG	metrics,	human	rights,	net	zero	carbon	emissions	programs	and	the	impact	of	COVID-19	on	business	growth.	The	panel	included	leaders	from	Citi,	UN	Women,	Ernst	&	Young	and	Accenture.We	continue	to	support	the	Broad-Based	Black	Economic	Empowerment	(BBBEE)	program	in	South	Africa,	maintaining	a	Level	3	BBBEE	Scorecard	for	the	inclusion	of	diverse	suppliers	during	2020/2021	for	local	operations.	Supplier Engagement and EvaluationSince	2013,	the	SCDIS	team	has	used	a	Corporate	Responsibility	Questionnaire	(CRQ)	to	gauge	how	effectively	our	suppliers	are	managing	critical	issues,	such	as	human	rights,	environmental	management,	health	and	safety,	labor	practices	and	diversity.	In	2020,	we	began	rolling	out	an	updated	version	of	this	evaluation	tool,	which	includes	an	expanded	assessment	in	the	areas	of	modern	slavery,	supplier	diversity,	environmental	sustainability,	corporate	responsibility,	labor	rights	and	workplace	safety.	This	latest	version	of	the	CRQ	brings	more	rigor	to	our	supplier	assessment	process	and	will	continue	to	raise	the	bar	for	our	ESG	practices	across	Citi’s	supply	chain.	It	is	also	helping	raise	awareness	about	supply	chain	corporate	
responsibility	with	our	colleagues across	the	company.	Our	goal	is	for	all	suppliers	to	complete	the	CRQ	every	two	years.	This	helps	improve	environmental	and	social	practices	throughout	our	supply	chain.	Supply Chain Sustainability  Focus AreasCiti	has	three	sustainability	focus	areas	for	our	supply	chain:	paper	and	paper	products,	IT	hardware	and	e-waste	disposal,	and	travel	and	logistics.	We	have	developed	actions	for	each	of	these	areas	and	incorporated	them	into	our	supply	chain	Global	Operating	Procedures.	As	a	result	of	choosing	EPEAT-certified	options	for	99%	of	our	deployed	servers,	laptops,	desktop	computers,	monitors	and	mobile	phones,	we	estimate	an	energy	savings	of	273	million	kilowatt-hours	and	a	greenhouse	gas	reduction	of	57,200	metric	tons	of	CO2	over	the	life	cycle	of	the	products.	In	support	of	responsible	forestry,	Citi	made	a	commitment	in	2020	to	use	Forest	Stewardship	Council	(FSC)	Chain	of	Custody-certified	paper	for	the	outer	envelopes	used	for	statements	and	customer	communications.	During	2021,	we	made	the	transition	to	and	began	using	FSC-certified	paper	for	outer	envelopes.	We	also	began	integrating	a	requirement	for	FSC-certified	bulk	roll	paper	(used	for	printing	statements)	into	our	Request	for	Proposal	(RFP)	process.	However,	we	have	paused	this	effort	due	to	global	supply	chain	disruptions	that	have	posed	serious	challenges	to	sourcing	adequate	amounts	of	FSC-certified	paper.	We	will	reassess	whether	it	is	possible	to	move	forward	with	updated	RFPs	in	2022	and	continue	to	advance	our	use	of	digital	alternatives.	
	139	GRI	Content	Index	150	Sustainability	Accounting	Standards				Board	Index	155	The	Principles	for	Responsible	Banking	Index168	Task	Force	on	Climate-related	Financial			Disclosures	Index	170	United	Nations	Global	Compact	Index	172	United	Nations	Guiding	Principles					Reporting	Framework	Index	176	AssuranceGRI Content IndexWe prepared this report in accordance with the GRI Standards: Core option. We also reported on many disclosures beyond the Core reporting option, including disclosures from the Financial Services Sector Supplement. The following index provides readers with references for where they can find information in this report and other public documents addressing GRI disclosures relevant to our business. All disclosures are reported fully. Please visit the GRI website  for the full text of the disclosures and other information on the GRI reporting framework.Disclosure Number and Title	Report Section or Other DocumentationGRI 102: General Disclosures 2016102-1 Name of the organizationCitigroup Inc.102-2 Activities, brands, products, and services• Citi at a Glance• 2021 10-K pages 4-6, 14, 20, 22, 24, 26 and 28102-3 Location of headquarters388 Greenwich St., New York, NY 10013102-4 Location of operations• Citi at a Glance• Citi Website — Countries and Jurisdictions102-5 Ownership and legal form• 2021 10-K pages 1 and 4102-6 Markets served• Citi at a Glance• 2021 10-K pages 4-9, 14, 20, 22, 24, 26 and 28102-7 Scale of the organization• Citi at a Glance • 2021 10-K pages 4-9102-8 Information on employees and other workersCiti may engage external service providers who may be responsible for performing noncore business activities or engage nonemployee resources who are employed by an external third party but support Citi processes. These nonemployee resources could be working under Citi supervision or be working under the supervision of an external third party in the third party’s facility. Citi may engage external service providers or nonemployees for a variety of different business purposes, including project-based work for a defined period of time, specialized/niche skill sets that are not readily available or professional and outsourced services. There are no significant variations in employment numbers (such as seasonal variations in employment).• Employment Data• 2021 10-K pages 62-64102-9 Supply chain• Action for Racial Equity• Responsible Sourcing102-10 Significant changes to the organization and its supply chain• 2021 Annual Report102-11 Precautionary Principle or approachAs discussed in the respective sections of this report, we evaluate and address risks as part of our Environmental and Social Risk Management (ESRM) efforts. Our ESRM Policy prohibits activities we believe pose risks to us, our clients and our stakeholders. This may include taking precautionary actions.102-12 External initiatives• Environmental and Social Policy Framework102-13 Membership of associations• Citi at a Glance• Stakeholder Engagement at Citi• Climate Risk and Net Zero > Climate Risk in Our Maritime Shipping Portfolio• Risk Management > Industry Collaboration• Citi Political Activities Statement Trade Associations• Environmental and Social Policy Framework102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker• Letter from Our CEO	Disclosure Number and Title	Report Section or Other Documentation102-15 Key impacts, risks, and opportunities• Letter from Our CEO• ESG Governance at Citi • Our Material ESG Issues: Citi in a Global Context• Our $1 Trillion Commitment• Financing the Low-Carbon Transition• Climate Risk and Net Zero• Human Rights > Our Salient Human Rights Risks• 2021 10-K pages 45-59102-16 Values, principles, standards, and norms of behavior• Citi at a Glance• Our Transformation• Risk Management• Citi Corporate Governance102-17 Mechanisms for advice and concerns about ethics• Our Transformation > Ethics and Culture at Citi• Citi Code of Conduct• Ethics Hotline 102-18 Governance structure• ESG Governance at Citi• Citi Corporate Governance• 2022 Proxy Statement pages 22-24102-19 Delegating authority• ESG Governance at Citi• Citigroup Board of Director’s Committee Charters • 2022 Proxy Statement pages 34-38102-20 Executive-level responsibility for economic, environmental, and social topics• ESG Governance at Citi102-21 Consulting stakeholders on economic, environmental, and social topics• ESG Governance at Citi• Stakeholder Engagement at Citi• Climate Risk and Net Zero > Reducing Climate Risk in Our Financing• Risk Management > Public Policy• Risk Management > Monitoring the Changing Risk Landscape• Human Rights > Our Commitment to Respect Human Rights• Human Rights > Learning and Engagement• 2022 Proxy Statement pages 12, 85-86102-22 Composition of the highest governance body and its committees• 2022 Proxy Statement pages 34-38102-23 Chair of the highest governance bodyThe Chair of the Board is a nonexecutive, independent director.• 2022 Proxy Statement page 29102-24 Nominating and selecting the highest governance body• Nomination, Governance and Public Affairs Committee Charter• 2022 Proxy Statement pages 47-51102-25 Conflicts of interest• 2022 Proxy Statement pages 25-28, 39-42 and 98102-26 Role of highest governance body in setting purpose, values, and strategy• ESG Governance at Citi• 2022 Proxy Statement pages 47-51102-27 Collective knowledge of highest governance body• ESG Governance at Citi• 2022 Proxy Statement pages 10-11 and 52-63102-28 Evaluating the highest governance body’s performance• Corporate Governance Guidelines page 6 • 2022 Proxy Statement page 31	Disclosure Number and Title	Report Section or Other Documentation102-29 Identifying and managing economic, environmental, and social impacts• ESG Governance at Citi• Stakeholder Engagement at Citi• Climate Risk and Net Zero > Citi’s Approach to Managing Climate Risk• Sustainable Operations > Managing Climate Risk in Our Operations• Risk Management > Environmental and Social Risk Management• Human Rights > Our Commitment to Respect Human Rights• Human Rights > Respecting Human Rights in Our Financing Decisions• Responsible Sourcing > Supplier Engagement and Evaluation• The Principles for Responsible Banking Index > 2.1 Impact Analysis• Nomination, Governance and Public Affairs Committee Charter• Risk Management Committee Charter• 2021 10-K pages 60-61 and 118-119• 2022 Proxy Statement pages 32-34102-30 Effectiveness of risk management processes• ESG Governance at Citi• Climate Risk and Net Zero > Citi’s Approach to Managing Climate Risk• Sustainable Operations > Managing Climate Risk in Our Operations• Risk Management > Environmental and Social Risk Management• Human Rights > Respecting Human Rights in Our Financing Decisions• Risk Management Committee Charter• Nomination, Governance and Public Affairs Committee Charter• 2021 10-K pages 66-73, 77-81, 92-100, 101-103 and 110-121102-31 Review of economic, environmental, and social topics• ESG Governance at Citi • 2022 Proxy Statement pages 32-34 and 36102-32 Highest governance body’s role in sustainability reporting• Head of Global Public Affairs102-33 Communicating critical concerns• ESG Governance at Citi > ESG Governance• Citi Code of Conduct• 2022 Proxy Statement pages 43-44102-35 Remuneration policiesWe compensate our executives fairly, based on individual and company performance, competitive benchmarking and support of our Mission and Value Proposition. • ESG Governance at Citi > Remuneration• Compensation Philosophy• Personnel and Compensation Committee Charter• 2022 Proxy Statement pages 64-67102-36 Process for determining remunerationOur Proxy Statement contains a summary of each named executive officer’s financial and nonfinancial performance goals, which are approved by the Board’s Personnel and Compensation Committee. We seek to design our executive pay program to motivate balanced behaviors consistent with our focus on long-term strategic goals. For example, diversity and inclusion, including representation of women and U.S. Black colleagues at the Assistant Vice President to Managing Director levels, and ethics and culture are incorporated into senior executives’ scorecards, which are a factor in remuneration.• ESG Governance at Citi > Remuneration• Personnel and Compensation Committee Charter• 2022 Proxy Statement pages 64-67102-37 Stakeholders’ involvement in remunerationCiti incorporates shareholder and stakeholder input on executive pay into our Compensation Philosophy. • Compensation Philosophy• Personnel and Compensation Committee Charter102-40 List of stakeholder groups• Stakeholder Engagement at Citi102-41 Collective bargaining agreements• Human Rights > Respecting the Human Rights of Our Employees102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders• Stakeholder Engagement at Citi• Human Rights > Learning and EngagementDisclosure Number and TitleReport Section or Other Documentation102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement• Our Material ESG Issues: Citi in a Global Context• Stakeholder Engagement at Citi• Climate Risk and Net Zero > Reducing Climate Risk in Our Financing• Risk Management > Environmental and Social Risk Management• Human Rights > Learning and Engagement• Responsible Sourcing > Supplier Engagement and Evaluation102-44 Key topics and concerns raised• Stakeholder Engagement at Citi• Climate Risk and Net Zero > Reducing Climate Risk in Our Financing• Risk Management > Environmental and Social Risk Management• Human Rights > Our Commitment to Respect Human Rights• Human Rights > Respecting Human Rights in Our Financing Decisions• Human Rights > Learning and Engagement• Responsible Sourcing > Supplier Engagement and Evaluation102-45 Entities included in the consolidated financial statements• 2021 10-K pages 4-6, 146102-46 Defining report content and topic Boundaries• Our Material ESG Issues: Citi in a Global Context 102-47 List of material topics• Our Material ESG Issues: Citi in a Global Context 102-48 Restatements of information• Climate Risk and Net Zero > Reducing Climate Risk in Our Financing• Sustainable Operations > Environmental Performance for Operations• Sustainable Operations > Environmental Impact Report102-49 Changes in reportingThere are no significant changes from the previous reporting period.102-50 Reporting periodThis report covers fiscal and calendar year 2021.102-51 Date of most recent reportApril 2021102-52 Reporting cycleAnnual102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the reportGlobal Public Affairs Citigroup Inc.388 Greenwich St. New York, NY 10013 sustainability@citi.com102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI StandardsThis report has been prepared in accordance with the GRI Standards: Core option.102-55 GRI content index• GRI Content Index102-56 External assuranceWe secure external assurance annually for data related to our reporting on the Equator Principles and environmental data for our operations.• AssuranceGRI 201: Economic Performance 2016201-1 Direct economic value generated and distributed• 2021 10-K pages 7-9201-2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities due to climate change• Financing the Low-Carbon Transition > Transforming Our Business to Support a Low-Carbon Economy• Climate Risk and Net Zero• Sustainable Operations > Managing Climate Risk in Our Operations• 2021 TCFD Report• 2021 10-K pages 57-58201-3 Defined benefit plan obligations and other retirement plans• Citi Benefits Handbook• 2021 10-K pages 171-182GRI 202: Market Presence 2016202-1 Ratios of standard entry level wage by gender compared to local minimum wage We offer competitive salaries based on our Compensation Philosophy, which includes ensuring that entry-level employees receive competitive wages within the industry. We also offer employees the opportunity to take advantage of formal or informal flexible work arrangements, including part-time work and job sharing. We conduct a robust annual review of compensation, which includes multiple layers of reviews of compensation recommendations and pay equity analysis.202-2 Proportion of senior management hired from the local communityMost employees are hired locally. When hiring for senior management, we may consider qualified candidates from across the globe.GRI 203: Indirect Economic Impacts 2016203-1 Infrastructure investments and services supported• Our $1 Trillion Commitment• Financing the Low-Carbon Transition > Transforming Our Business to Support a Low-Carbon Economy• Action for Racial Equity > Action for Racial Equity: An Update on Our Progress • Citi Impact Fund• COVID-19 Relief and Recovery• Affordable Housing• Strategic Philanthropy203-2 Significant indirect economic impacts• Citi’s Value Proposition: A Mission of Enabling Growth and Progress• Financing the Low-Carbon Transition > Transforming Our Business to Support a Low-Carbon  Economy• COVID-19 Relief and RecoveryGRI 205: Anti-corruption 2016103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary• Our Material ESG Issues: Citi in a Global Context • Risk Management > Managing Corruption and Tax-Related Risks103-2 The management approach and its components • ESG Governance at Citi • Risk Management > Managing Corruption and Tax-Related Risks103-3 Evaluation of the management approach• ESG Governance at Citi • Our Transformation > Ethics and Culture at Citi• Risk Management > Managing Corruption and Tax-Related Risks205-1 Operations assessed for risks related to corruption• Risk Management > Managing Corruption and Tax-Related Risks• Anti-Bribery Program Statement205-2 Communication and training about anticorruption policies and procedures• Our Transformation > Ethics and Culture at Citi• Risk Management > Managing Corruption and Tax-Related Risks• Anti-Bribery Program Statement• Anti-Money Laundering Program• Citi Code of ConductGRI 206: Anti-competitive Behavior 2016103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary• Our Material ESG Issues: Citi in a Global Context 103-2 The management approach and its components • ESG Governance at Citi• Citi Code of Conduct• 2021 10-K pages 66-69103-3 Evaluation of the management approach• ESG Governance at Citi• 2021 10-K pages 66-69206-1 Legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust, and monopoly practices• 2021 10-K pages 296-303GRI 302: Energy 2016103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary• Our Material ESG Issues: Citi in a Global Context 103-2 The management approach and its components • ESG Governance at Citi• Our $1 Trillion Commitment• Financing the Low-Carbon Transition• Climate Risk and Net Zero > Our Net Zero Commitment• Sustainable Operations > Operational Footprint Goals• Sustainable Progress Strategy 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach• Financing the Low-Carbon Transition > Transforming Our Business to Support a Low-Carbon  Economy• Sustainable Operations > Operational Footprint Goals302-1 Energy consumption within the organization• Sustainable Operations > Environmental Performance for Operations• Sustainable Operations > Environmental Impact Report302-3 Energy intensity• Sustainable Operations > Environmental Impact Report302-4 Reduction of energy consumption• Sustainable Operations > Environmental Performance for Operations• Sustainable Operations > Environmental Impact ReportGRI 304: Biodiversity 2016103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary• Our Material ESG Issues: Citi in a Global Context• Financing the Low-Carbon Transition > Climate and Biodiversity• Risk Management > Environmental and Social Risk Management103-2 The management approach and its components • ESG Governance at Citi• Financing the Low-Carbon Transition > Climate and Biodiversity• Risk Management > Environmental and Social Risk Management103-3 Evaluation of the management approach• Risk Management > Environmental and Social Risk Management304-2 Significant impacts of activities, products, and services on biodiversity• Financing the Low-Carbon Transition > Climate and Biodiversity• Risk Management > Environmental and Social Risk Management304-3 Habitats protected or restored• Risk Management > Protecting Biodiversity and Addressing Resettlement Concerns in Panama CityGRI 305: Emissions 2016103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary• Our Material ESG Issues: Citi in a Global Context • 2021 TCFD Report103-2 The management approach and its components • ESG Governance at Citi• Climate Risk and Net Zero > Our Net Zero Commitment• Sustainable Operations > Operational Footprint Goals• Sustainable Progress Strategy 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach• Sustainable Operations > Operational Footprint Goals305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions• Sustainable Operations > Environmental Performance for Operations• Sustainable Operations > Environmental Impact Report305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions• Sustainable Operations > Environmental Performance for Operations• Sustainable Operations > Environmental Impact Report305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions• Sustainable Operations > Environmental Impact Report305-4 GHG emissions intensity• Sustainable Operations > Environmental Impact Report305-5 Reduction of GHG emissions• Sustainable Operations > Environmental Performance for Operations• Sustainable Operations > Environmental Impact ReportGRI 306: Waste 2020103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary• Our Material ESG Issues: Citi in a Global Context• Sustainable Operations > Operational Footprint Goals103-2 The management approach and its components • ESG Governance at Citi• Sustainable Operations > Operational Footprint Goals• Sustainable Progress Strategy103-3 Evaluation of the management approach• Sustainable Operations > Operational Footprint Goals306-2 Management of significant waste-related impacts• Sustainable Operations > Operational Footprint Goals• Sustainable Operations > Sustainable Building Principles in Action306-3 Waste generatedCiti did not generate any hazardous waste during the reporting period.• Sustainable Operations > Environmental Performance for Operations• Sustainable Operations > Environmental Impact ReportGRI 308: Supplier Environmental Assessment 2016308-1 New suppliers that were screened using environmental criteria• Responsible Sourcing > Supplier Engagement and EvaluationGRI 401: Employment 2016103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary• Our Material ESG Issues: Citi in a Global Context• Diversity, Equity & Inclusion103-2 The management approach and its components • ESG Governance at Citi• Diversity, Equity & Inclusion103-3 Evaluation of the management approach• Diversity, Equity & Inclusion401-1 New employee hires and employee turnover• Employment Data401-2 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary or part-time employees• Return to Office and the Future of Work• Citi Benefits HandbookGRI 403: Occupational Health and Safety 2018103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary• Our Material ESG Issues: Citi in a Global Context • Sustainable Operations > Employee and Customer Well-Being• Return to Office and the Future of Work103-2 The management approach and its components • ESG Governance at Citi• Sustainable Operations > Sustainable Building Principles in Action• Sustainable Operations > Employee and Customer Well-Being• Return to Office and the Future of Work• Human Rights > Freedom of Association103-3 Evaluation of the management approach• Sustainable Operations > Employee and Customer Well-Being• Return to Office and the Future of Work403-3 Occupational health services• Sustainable Operations > Employee and Customer Well-Being• Return to Office and the Future of Work403-4 Worker participation, consultation, and communication on occupational health and safety• Sustainable Operations > Employee and Customer Well-Being• Human Rights > Freedom of Association403-6 Promotion of worker health• Sustainable Operations > Employee and Customer Well-Being• Return to Office and the Future of WorkGRI 404: Training and Education 2016103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary• Our Material ESG Issues: Citi in a Global Context• Diversity, Equity & Inclusion > Recruit, Retain and Promote103-2 The management approach and its components • ESG Governance at Citi• Diversity, Equity & Inclusion > Recruit, Retain and Promote103-3 Evaluation of the management approach• Diversity, Equity & Inclusion > Recruit, Retain and Promote404-2 Programs for upgrading employee skills and transition assistance programs• Diversity, Equity & Inclusion > Recruit, Retain and Promote404-3 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development reviewsEmployees receive formal feedback from their managers through mid-year and year-end reviews. Citi encourages employees and their managers to create individual plans that consider the skills, strategic development opportunities and behaviors needed to enhance current performance and prepare for future roles. These plans are discussed as part of mid-year and year-end reviews, and employees are encouraged to take part in stretch assignments and development programs to further build skills. All Citi employees have the ability to request feedback from and provide feedback to colleagues, while managers can also ask for feedback on team members throughout the year.GRI 405: Diversity and Equal Opportunity 2016103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary• Our Material ESG Issues: Citi in a Global Context• Diversity, Equity & Inclusion• Human Rights > Our Commitment to Respect Human Rights• Human Rights > Respecting the Human Rights of Our Employees103-2 The management approach and its components • ESG Governance at Citi• Diversity, Equity & Inclusion• Human Rights > Our Commitment to Respect Human Rights• Human Rights > Respecting the Human Rights of Our Employees103-3 Evaluation of the management approach• Diversity, Equity & Inclusion405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees• Employment Data• Board of Directors• 2022 Proxy Statement page 30GRI 407: Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining 2016103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary• Our Material ESG Issues: Citi in a Global Context• Human Rights > Respecting the Human Rights of Our Employees103-2 The management approach and its components • ESG Governance at Citi• Human Rights > Respecting the Human Rights of Our Employees103-3 Evaluation of the management approach• Human Rights > Respecting the Human Rights of Our Employees407-1 Operations and suppliers in which the right to freedom of association and collective bargaining may be at risk• Human Rights > Respecting the Human Rights of Our EmployeesGRI 408: Child Labor 2016103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary• Our Material ESG Issues: Citi in a Global Context• Human Rights > Respecting Human Rights in Our Financing Decisions  103-2 The management approach and its components • ESG Governance at Citi• Human Rights > Extending Respect for Human Rights Through Our Suppliers• Human Rights > Respecting Human Rights in Our Financing Decisions• Citi Statement of Supplier Principles• Citi Statement on Human Rights103-3 Evaluation of the management approach• Human Rights > Respecting Human Rights in Our Financing Decisions 408-1 Operations and suppliers at significant risk for incidents of child laborWe have not identified any operations as having significant risk for incidents of child labor. Our business overall is not at high risk because of the nature of work in the financial services industry. In addition, we do not directly source high-risk agricultural commodities, conflict minerals or any other raw materials, goods or services in significant amounts from suppliers in high-risk jurisdictions.GRI 409: Forced or Compulsory Labor 2016103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary• Our Material ESG Issues: Citi in a Global Context• Human Rights > Our Commitment to Respect Human Rights• Human Rights > Extending Respect for Human Rights Through Our Suppliers• Human Rights > Respecting Human Rights in Our Financing Decisions  103-2 The management approach and its components • ESG Governance at Citi• Human Rights > Extending Respect for Human Rights Through Our Suppliers• Human Rights > Respecting Human Rights in Our Financing Decisions• Responsible Sourcing > Supplier Engagement and Evaluation• Citi Statement of Supplier Principles• Citi Statement on Human Rights• Citi Modern Slavery Disclosures103-3 Evaluation of the management approach• Human Rights > Extending Respect for Human Rights Through Our Suppliers• Human Rights > Respecting Human Rights in Our Financing Decisions• Responsible Sourcing > Supplier Engagement and Evaluation409-1 Operations and suppliers at significant risk for incidents of forced or compulsory laborWe have not identified any operations as having significant risk for incidents of forced or compulsory labor. In addition, we do not directly source high-risk agricultural commodities, conflict minerals or other raw materials in significant amounts from suppliers in high-risk jurisdictions. While our own business operations and supply chain are not at high risk because of the nature of work in the financial services industry, our ESRM policy includes processes to evaluate corporate clients to determine if they present a high risk of forced labor or compulsory labor and we have taken appropriate mitigating steps.• Human Rights > Extending Respect for Human Rights Through Our Suppliers• Human Rights > Respecting Human Rights in Our Financing Decisions• Responsible Sourcing > Supplier Engagement and EvaluationGRI 411: Rights of Indigenous Peoples 2016103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary• Our Material ESG Issues: Citi in a Global Context• Human Rights > Our Commitment to Respect Human Rights• Human Rights > Respecting Human Rights in Our Financing Decisions103-2 The management approach and its components • ESG Governance at Citi• Human Rights > Our Commitment to Respect Human Rights• Human Rights > Respecting Human Rights in Our Financing Decisions103-3 Evaluation of the management approach• Human Rights > Respecting Human Rights in Our Financing Decisions411-1 Incidents of violations involving rights of indigenous peoples• Human Rights > Identifying Human Rights Risks in TransactionsGRI 412: Human Rights Assessment 2016103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary• Our Material ESG Issues: Citi in a Global Context• Human Rights > Our Commitment to Respect Human Rights• Responsible Sourcing 103-2 The management approach and its components • ESG Governance at Citi• Human Rights• Responsible Sourcing > Supplier Engagement and Evaluation• Citi Statement on Human Rights• Citi Requirements for Suppliers • Citi Statement of Supplier Principles• Citi Modern Slavery Disclosures103-3 Evaluation of the management approach• Human Rights > Respecting the Human Rights of Our Employees• Human Rights > Extending Respect for Human Rights Through Our Suppliers• Human Rights > Respecting Human Rights in Our Financing Decisions• Responsible Sourcing > Supplier Engagement and Evaluation412-1 Operations that have been subject to human rights reviews or impact assessments• Risk Management > Environmental and Social Risk Management• Human Rights > Identifying Human Rights Risks in Transactions• Responsible Sourcing > Supplier Engagement and Evaluation412-2 Employee training on human rights policies or procedures• Risk Management > ESRM Training• Human Rights > Respecting the Human Rights of Our Employees• Human Rights > Employee Training412-3 Significant investment agreements and contracts that include human rights clauses or that underwent human rights screening• Human Rights > Respecting Human Rights in Our Financing Decisions GRI 413: Local Communities 2016103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary• Our Material ESG Issues: Citi in a Global Context• Our Commitment to Social Finance• Risk Management > Environmental and Social Risk Management103-2 The management approach and its components • ESG Governance at Citi• Our Commitment to Social Finance• Risk Management > Our ESRM Policy• Citi’s Environmental and Social Policy Framework103-3 Evaluation of the management approach• Our Commitment to Social Finance• Risk Management > Policy Implementation413-1 Operations with local community engagement, impact assessments, and development programs• Stakeholder Engagement at Citi• Action for Racial Equity• Citi Impact Fund• COVID-19 Relief and Recovery• Affordable Housing• Strategic Philanthropy• Risk Management > Environmental and Social Risk Management• Human Rights > Learning and Engagement• Responsible Sourcing > Supplier Engagement and Evaluation413-2 Operations with significant actual and potential negative impacts on local communities• Risk Management > Environmental and Social Risk Management• Human Rights > Our Commitment to Respect Human Rights• Human Rights > Extending Respect for Human Rights Through Our Suppliers• Human Rights > Respecting Human Rights in Our Financing Decisions• Responsible Sourcing > Supplier Engagement and EvaluationGRI 414: Supplier Social Assessment 2016414-1 New suppliers that were screened using social criteria• Responsible Sourcing > Supplier Engagement and EvaluationGRI 415: Public Policy 2016103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary• Our Material ESG Issues: Citi in a Global Context• Risk Management > Public Policy103-2 The management approach and its components • ESG Governance at Citi• Risk Management > Public Policy• Citi Political Activities Statement103-3 Evaluation of the management approach• Risk Management > Public Policy• Citi Political Activities Statement415-1 Political contributions• Citi U.S. Political ContributionsGRI 417: Marketing and Labeling 2016103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary• Our Material ESG Issues: Citi in a Global Context• Serving Our Customers and Clients Responsibly103-2 The management approach and its components • ESG Governance at Citi• Serving Our Customers and Clients Responsibly103-3 Evaluation of the management approach• Our Material ESG Issues: Citi in a Global Context• Serving Our Customers and Clients Responsibly417-1 Requirements for product and service information and labeling• Serving Our Customers and Clients ResponsiblyGRI 418: Customer Privacy 2016103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary• Our Material ESG Issues: Citi in a Global Context• Risk Management > Safeguarding Data and Protecting Customer Information103-2 The management approach and its components • Risk Management > Safeguarding Data and Protecting Customer Information• Citi Code of Conduct• Citi Online Privacy Statement• Citi Security Center103-3 Evaluation of the management approach• Risk Management > Safeguarding Data and Protecting Customer Information418-1 Substantiated complaints concerning breaches of customer privacy and losses of customer data• Risk Management > Safeguarding Data and Protecting Customer InformationGRI 419: Socioeconomic Compliance 2016103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary• Our Material ESG Issues: Citi in a Global Context 103-2 The management approach and its components • ESG Governance at Citi• Risk Management > Managing Corruption and Tax-Related Risks• Serving Our Customers and Clients Responsibly• 2021 10-K pages 66-69103-3 Evaluation of the management approach• Risk Management > Managing Corruption and Tax-Related Risks • Serving Our Customers and Clients Responsibly• 2021 10-K pages 66-69419-1 Non-compliance with laws and regulations in the social and economic area• 2021 10-K pages 66-69, 116-117• 2021 Annual ReportFINANCIAL SERVICES SECTOR SUPPLEMENTFS6 Percentage of the portfolio for business lines by specific region, size (e.g., micro/SME/large) and by sector• 2021 10-K pages 7-28FS8 Monetary value of products and services designed to deliver a specific environmental benefit for each business line broken down by purpose• Our $1 Trillion Commitment• Financing the Low-Carbon Transition > Transforming Our Business to Support a Low-Carbon  Economy FS13 Access points in low-populated or economically disadvantaged areas by type• Our Commitment to Social Finance• Action for Racial Equity• Citi Impact Fund• COVID-19 Relief and Recovery• Affordable Housing• Strategic PhilanthropyFS14 Initiatives to improve access to financial services for disadvantaged people• Our Commitment to Social Finance• Action for Racial Equity• Citi Impact Fund• COVID-19 Relief and Recovery• Affordable Housing• Strategic PhilanthropySustainability Accounting Standards Board IndexThis index was prepared in accordance with Industry Standards Version 2018-10 issued by the Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB). The disclosures below relate to three sector standards aligned to our mix of businesses: Commercial Banks, Consumer Finance and Investment Banking & Brokerage. Unless otherwise noted, data and descriptions apply to our entire company, not just the businesses relevant to that sector. We do not yet disclose all metrics included in the sector standards, but we will continue to evaluate their relevance to our business and our ability to improve, and we will consider increasing the number of metrics we include in the future. All data is as of and for the year ended Dec. 31, 2021, unless otherwise noted.COMMERCIAL BANKSTopic	Accounting Metric	Category	Code	Report Section or Other DocumentationData Security(1) Number of data breaches, (2) percentage involving personally identifiable information (PII), (3) number of account holders affectedQuantitativeFN-CB230a.1Citi has a robust program that addresses the cybersecurity life cycle of preparedness and prevention, detection, response, mitigation, lessons learned and training. Cybersecurity incidents, including any data breaches, are reported to consumers, regulators, business partners and others as legally required and otherwise appropriate. For security reasons, Citi generally does not publicly reveal further details regarding the security incidents we may encounter in a particular year. Citi provides a general discussion of cybersecurity incidents with regard to Operational Risk in its 10-K.• 2021 10-K pages 52 and 115-116Description of approach to identifying and addressing data security risksDiscussion and AnalysisFN-CB-230a.2• Risk Management > Safeguarding Data and Protecting Customer  InformationFinancial Inclusion &Capacity Building(1) Number and (2) amount of loans outstanding qualified to programs designed to promote small business and community developmentQuantitativeFN-CB240a.1Citi engages in community development efforts by equity investment through the Citi Impact Fund and financing affordable housing and community development projects through our Citi Community Capital group. Key statistics and the impacts of these efforts as well as activity to support small business lending can be found in our 2021 Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) Report. • Equitable and Resilient Communities > Investing in Our Communities: 2021 Highlights• Our Commitment to Social Finance• Action for Racial Equity• Citi Impact Fund• COVID-19 Relief and Recovery• Affordable Housing• Strategic Philanthropy• Citi Community Capital Website (1) Number and (2) amount of past due and nonaccrual loans qualified to programs designed to promote small business and community developmentQuantitativeFN-CB-240a.2Citi does not report this information.Number of no-cost retail checking accounts provided to previously unbanked or underbanked customers QuantitativeFN-CB-240a.3In 2014, Citi launched the Access Account — a simple, checkless bank account with low or no monthly fees and no overdraft fees, which provides customers with a straightforward way to save money and manage their finances. As of Dec. 31, 2021, there were 336,677 active Access checking accounts. This figure excludes high-yield savings accounts. On Feb. 24, 2022, Citi announced plans to eliminate overdraft fees, returned item fees and overdraft protection fees by mid-2022, representing the Company’s continued commitment to expand access to inclusive banking products and services that can help advance economic progress, especially for underbanked and unbanked communities. In addition to eliminating these fees, Citi will continue to offer a robust suite of free overdraft protection services for its consumers. Citi does not track if account holders were formerly unbanked/underbanked.• Risk Management > Eliminating Overdraft Fees for Our Customers’  Financial Wellness• Access Account webpage• Citi Retail Banking Overdraft Fees ChangeNumber of participants in financial literacy initiatives for unbanked, underbanked, or underserved customersQuantitativeFN-CB-240a.4Our efforts to support underbanked individuals and small businesses are discussed in our 2021 ESG Report. • Our Commitment to Social FinanceTopic	Accounting MetricCategoryCodeReport Section or Other DocumentationIncorporation of ESG Factors in Credit AnalysisCommercial and industrial credit exposure, by industryQuantitativeFN-CB410a.1• 2021 10-K page 79Description of approach to incorporation of environmental, social, and governance (ESG) factors in credit analysisDiscussion and AnalysisFN-CB410a.2• Risk Management > Environmental and Social Risk Management• Environmental and Social Policy Framework• 2021 10-K pages 118-119Business EthicsTotal amount of monetary losses as a result of legal proceedings associated with fraud, insider trading, anti-trust, anti-competitive behavior, market manipulation, malpractice, or other related financial industry laws or regulationsQuantitativeFN-CB510a.1Citi discloses all material legal and regulatory proceedings in its 10K, including when a suit was filed, the court, the parties involved, the allegations and the relief sought. Citi also discloses information regarding material inquiries or investigations by regulators, including any legal and regulatory proceedings associated with such business ethics matters.• 2021 10-K pages 296-303Description of whistleblower policies and proceduresDiscussion and AnalysisFN-CB510a.2• Human Rights > Reporting Mechanisms for Stakeholders• Citi Code of Conduct pages 10-11Systemic Risk ManagementGlobal Systemically Important Bank (G-SIB) score, by categoryQuantitativeFN-CB550a.1• 2021 10-K page 31• 2021 Systemic Risk Report (FR Y-15) Description of approach to incorporation of results of mandatory and voluntary stress tests into capital adequacy planning, long-term corporate strategy, and other business activitiesDiscussion and AnalysisFN-CB-550a.2• 2021 10-K page 32Activity Metric(1) Number and (2) value of checking and savings accounts by segment: (a) personal and (b) small businessQuantitativeFN-CB000.ACiti discloses the number of end-of-period retail banking and credit card accounts by region. Citi does not disaggregate personal and small business accounts.• 4Q21 Quarterly Financial Data Supplement pages 9, 12, 14 and 16(1) Number and (2) value of loans by segment: (a) personal, (b) small business, and (c) corporateQuantitativeFN-CB000.BCiti discloses the value of outstanding consumer and corporate loans in its 10-K. Consumer loans are reported as consumer mortgages and credit card loans, while personal, small business and other loans are aggregated.• 2021 10-K pages 70-83CONSUMER FINANCETopicAccounting MetricCategoryCodeResponseCustomer PrivacyNumber of account holders whose information is used for secondary purposesQuantitativeFN-CF220a.1Citi does not report this information.Total amount of monetary losses as a result of legal proceedings associated with customer privacyQuantitativeFN-CF-220a.2Citi discloses all material legal and regulatory proceedings in its 10K, including when a suit was filed, the court, the parties involved, the allegations and the relief sought. Citi also discloses information regarding material inquiries or investigations by regulators. Citi did not have any material matters requiring disclosure associated with customer privacy in its 2021 10-K.• 2021 10-K pages 296-303	Topic	Accounting Metric	Category	Code	ResponseData Security(1) Number of data breaches, (2) percentage involving personally identifiable information (PII), (3) number of account holders affectedQuantitativeFN-CF230a.1See response to FN-CB-230a.1.Card-related fraud losses from (1) card-not-present fraud and (2) card-present and other fraudQuantitativeFN-CF-230a.2Citi did not have any material fraud losses requiring disclosure.Description of approach to identifying and addressing data security risksDiscussion and AnalysisFN-CF-230a.3See response to FN-CB-230a.2.Selling PracticesPercentage of total remuneration for covered employees that is variable and linked to the amount of products and services soldQuantitativeFN-CF270a.1Citi does not track this information.Approval rate for (1) credit and (2) pre-paid products for applicants with FICO scores above and below 660QuantitativeFN-CF-270a.2Citi does not disclose its approval rates for its credit card and pre-paid products. Citi provides a FICO score distribution of outstanding North America Citi-Branded and Citi Retail Services card receivables in its 10-K. The disclosure distribution is disaggregated by scores above and below 680 and does not include pre-paid products.• 2021 10-K pages 207-208(1) Average fees from add-on products, (2) average APR, (3) average age of accounts, (4) average number of trade lines, and (5) average annual fees for pre-paid products, for customers with FICO scores above and below 660QuantitativeFN-CF-270a.3Citi does not track this information.(1) Number of complaints filed with the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB), (2) percentage with monetary or nonmonetary relief, (3) percentage disputed by consumer, (4) percentage that resulted in investigation by the CFPBQuantitativeFN-CF-270a.4Citi does not report this information.Total amount of monetary losses as a result of legal proceedings associated with selling and servicing of productsQuantitativeFN-CF-270a.5Citi discloses all material legal and regulatory proceedings in its 10K, including when a suit was filed, the court, the parties involved, the allegations and the relief sought. Citi also discloses information regarding material inquiries or investigations by regulators associated with selling and servicing of products. • 2021 10-K pages 296-303Activity MetricNumber of unique consumers with an active (1) credit card account and (2) pre-paid debit card accountQuantitativeFN-CF000.ACiti discloses the number of end-of-period retail banking and credit card accounts by region. Citi does not disaggregate credit card and pre-paid debit card accounts nor report unique consumers.• 4Q21 Quarterly Financial Data Supplement pages 9, 12, 14 and 16Number of (1) credit card accounts and (2) pre-paid debit card accountsQuantitativeFN-CF000.BCiti discloses the number of end-of-period retail banking and credit card accounts by region. Citi does not disaggregate credit card and pre-paid debit card accounts.• 4Q21 Quarterly Financial Data Supplement pages 9, 12, 14 and 16INVESTMENT BANKING & BROKERAGETopic	Accounting Metric	Category	Code	ResponseEmployee Diversity & InclusionPercentage of gender and racial/ethnic group representation for (1) executive management, (2) non-executive management, (3) professionals, and (4) all other employeesQuantitativeFN-IB-330a.1• Diversity, Equity & Inclusion > Representation Goals• Employment DataIncorporation of Environmental, Social, and Governance Factors in Investment Banking & Brokerage ActivitiesRevenue from (1) underwriting, (2) advisory, and (3) securitization transactions incorporating integration of environmental, social, and governance (ESG) factors, by industryQuantitativeFN-IB410a.1Citi does not report this information.(1) Number and (2) total value of investments and loans incorporating integration of environmental, social, and governance (ESG) factors, by industryQuantitativeFN-IB-410a.2• Our $1 Trillion Commitment• Risk Management > ESRM Consultation DataCiti also incorporates environmental and social criteria for transactions that contribute to our $1 trillion sustainable finance commitment. Description of approach to incorporation of environmental, social, and governance (ESG) factors in investment banking and brokerage activitiesDiscussion and AnalysisFN-IB-410a.3• Risk Management > Environmental and Social Risk Management• Citi’s Environmental and Social Policy FrameworkBusiness EthicsTotal amount of monetary losses as a result of legal proceedings associated with fraud, insider trading, anti-trust, anti-competitive behavior, market manipulation, malpractice, or other related financial industry laws or regulationsQuantitativeFN-IB510a.1See response to FN-CB-510a.1.Description of whistleblower policies and proceduresDiscussion and AnalysisFN-IB-510a.2See response to FN-CB-510a.2.Professional Integrity(1) Number and (2) percentage of covered employees with a record of investment-related investigations, consumerinitiated complaints, private civil litigations, or other regulatory proceedingsQuantitativeFN-IB510b.1Citi does not report this information.Number of mediation and arbitration cases associated with professional integrity, including duty of care, by partyQuantitativeFN-IB-510b.2Citi does not report this information.Total amount of monetary losses as a result of legal proceedings associated with professional integrity, including duty of careQuantitativeFN-IB-510b.3Citi discloses all material legal and regulatory proceedings in its 10K, including when a suit was filed, the court, the parties involved, the allegations and the relief sought. Citi also discloses information regarding material inquiries or investigations by regulators associated with professional integrity, including duty of care.• 2021 10-K pages 296-303Description of approach to ensuring professional integrity, including duty of careDiscussion and AnalysisFN-IB-510b.4• Serving Our Customers and Clients Responsibly• Citi Code of ConductSystemic Risk ManagementGlobal Systemically Important Bank (G-SIB) score, by categoryQuantitativeFN-IB-550a.1See response to FN-CB-550a.1.Description of approach to incorporation of results of mandatory and voluntary stress tests into capital adequacy planning, long-term corporate strategy, and other business activitiesDiscussion and AnalysisFN-IB-550a.2See response to FN-CB-550a.2.Employee Incentives & Risk TakingPercentage of total remuneration that is variable for Material Risk Takers (MRTs)QuantitativeFN-IB-550b.1Citi discloses the percentage of variable remuneration for the Executive Management Team in its Proxy Statement.• 2022 Proxy Statement page 81Percentage of variable remuneration of Material Risk Takers (MRTs) to which malus or clawback provisions were appliedQuantitativeFN-IB-550b.2Citi discloses the percentage of variable remuneration subject to clawback provisions for the Executive Management Team in its Proxy Statement.• 2022 Proxy Statement pages 81 and 88Discussion of policies around supervision, control, and validation of traders’ pricing of Level 3 assets and liabilitiesDiscussion and AnalysisFN-IB-550b.3• 2021 10-K pages 124 and 263-264Activity Metric(1) Number and (2) value of (a) underwriting, (b) advisory, and (c) securitization transactionsQuantitativeFN-IB000.APer Dealogic, our transaction volumes for 2021 were:Transaction TypeVolume ($ M)Deals (#)Underwriting890,494.58 3,457Advisory (completed)820,459.53 317	Securitizations	153,112.44 	401• Dealogic press view standards were used to run the league tables.• Values include Dealogic Rank Eligible transactions only.• Citi volume for Mergers and Acquisitions is Equal Credit to Target and Acquirer Advisors. • Citi volume for underwriting is Full to Book Manager, Equal if Joint Books.• Underwriting is inclusive of equity and equity-linked securities, debt capital markets issuances including securitization of asset and mortgage-backed securities and syndicated loans.• Securitizations consist of asset and mortgage-backed securities. • Derivatives are not accounted for in the table above.(1) Number and (2) value of proprietary investments and loans by sectorQuantitativeFN-IB000.BThrough Citi’s Impact Fund, we make equity investments in companies that are addressing societal challenges, including workforce development, sustainability, infrastructure, financial capability, and access to capital and economic opportunity.• Citi Impact Fund(1) Number and (2) value of market making transactions in (a) fixed income, (b) equity, (c) currency, (d) derivatives, and (e) commodity productsQuantitativeFN-IB000.CCiti does not report this information.The Principles for Responsible Banking IndexThe Principles for Responsible Banking (PRB) are a framework for ensuring that signatory banks’ strategy and practice align with Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) and the Paris Climate Agreement (Paris Agreement). The Principles encourage a sustainable banking system and help the industry demonstrate how it makes a positive contribution to society. They embed sustainability at the strategic, portfolio and transactional levels and across all business areas.Following the guidance provided by UN Environment Programme Finance Initiative (UNEP FI), we mapped the Principles to our core activities and are reporting on our progress. The results are outlined in the index below.Reporting and Self- 	High-Level Summary of Bank’s Response	ReferencesAssessment Requirements Principle 1: AlignmentWe will align our business strategy to be consistent with and contribute to individuals’ needs and society’s goals, as expressed in the SDGs, the Paris Agreement and relevant national and regional frameworks.1.1 Describe (high-level) your bank’s business model, including the main customer segments served, types of products and services provided, the main sectors and types of activities, and where relevant the technologies financed across the main geographies in which your bank has operations or provides products and services.Citi is a global diversified financial services company whose businesses provide consumers, corporations, governments and institutions with a broad, yet focused, range of financial products and services, including consumer banking and credit, corporate and investment banking, securities brokerage, trade and securities services and wealth management. Citi has approximately 200 million customer accounts and does business in more than 160 countries and jurisdictions.During 2021, Citigroup was managed pursuant to two operating segments — Institutional Clients Group (ICG) and Global Consumer Banking (GCB). As part of its strategic refresh, Citi made management reporting changes to align with its vision and strategy, including to assist Citi in decisions about resources and capital allocation and to assess business performance. In the first quarter of 2022, Citi revised its financial reporting structure to align with these management reporting changes to enable investors and others to better understand the performance of Citi’s businesses. These changes are discussed on page 6 of our 2021 10-K.2021 Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) Report:• Citi at a GlanceExternal References:• About Citi• Consumer Businesses• Institutional Businesses• 2021 10-K, pp. 4-6Reporting and Self- 	High-Level Summary of Bank’s Response	ReferencesAssessment Requirements 1.2 Describe how your bank has aligned and/or is planning to align its strategy to be consistent with and contribute to society’s goals, as expressed in the SDGs, the Paris Agreement, and relevant national and regional frameworks.Many of our activities support the SDGs, including sustainable finance such as renewable energy project finance and public sector finance; corporate philanthropy; Citi Impact Fund investments; inclusive finance activity and employee diversity programs. Citi is also part of the Global Investors for Sustainable Development (GISD) Alliance, which is committed to accelerating the financing of the SDGs.Examples of our initiatives that align with and contribute to society’s goals are summarized below:$1 Trillion Sustainable Finance CommitmentIn 2021 we announced our $1 trillion sustainable finance by 2030 commitment. This extends our prior five-year, $250 Billion Environmental Finance Goal to $500 Billion by 2030, and includes a $500 Billion Social Finance Goal towards financing in areas such as affordable basic infrastructure, affordable housing, diversity and equity and economic inclusion, among others. Sustainable Progress StrategyClimate change is integrated into the three pillars of our Sustainable Progress Strategy: • Low-Carbon Transition: our work to finance and facilitate low-carbon solutions and support our clients in their decarbonization and transition strategies• Climate Risk: our efforts to measure, manage and reduce the climate risk and impacts of our client portfolio• Sustainable Operations: our efforts to reduce the environmental footprint of our facilities and further integrate sustainable practices across our global operationsFossil Fuel Sector Approaches Under our Environmental and Social Risk Management (ESRM) Policy, we have updated our Sector Approaches for fossil fuel industries, such as thermal coal mining, coal-fired power and Arctic oil and gas. We have included a commitment to eliminate our exposure to thermal coal mining companies by 2030, as well as requirements for clients with coal-fired power generation to engage with Citi on low-carbon transition strategies. Net Zero CommitmentIn 2021, Citi announced its commitment to net zero greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions by 2050, including net zero GHG emissions for its operations by 2030. In early 2022, we released our initial net zero plan, baseline emissions and 2030 emissions reduction targets for our Energy and Power loan portfolios. Action for Racial EquityAs part of our Action for Racial Equity, Citi and the Citi Foundation have committed $1 billion in strategic initiatives through 2023 to help close the racial wealth gap.Citi Impact Fund We established the Citi Impact Fund, through which we are investing in “double bottom line” companies that are addressing societal challenges and have expanded this fund over recent years. Pathways to Progress Citi and the Citi Foundation’s Pathways to Progress initiative aims to build job skills and equip young people, particularly those from underserved communities, with the skills and networks for improved economic opportunity. In addition to the examples above, Citi has adopted or publicly endorsed a large number of external principles and standards that inform our approach to sustainable finance and risk management and allow us to provide innovative financial services that enable growth and economic progress while meeting our responsibilities to people and the planet. Please refer to our Environmental and Social Policy Framework for a full list.2021 ESG Report:• Citi and the Sustainable Development Goals• Sustainable Finance• Sustainable Progress • Climate Risk and Net Zero• Equitable and Resilient  Communities• Citi Impact FundExternal References:• Action for Racial Equity• Environmental and Social Policies• Environmental and Social Policy Framework• Net Zero Commitment• Sustainable Progress StrategyReporting and Self- 	High-Level Summary of Bank’s Response	ReferencesAssessment Requirements Principle 2: Impact and Target SettingWe will continuously increase our positive impacts while reducing the negative impacts on, and managing the risks to, people and environment resulting from our activities, products and services. To this end, we will set and publish targets where we can have the most significant impacts.2.1 Impact Analysis:Show that your bank has identified the areas in which it has its most significant (potential) positive and negative impact through an impact analysis that fulfills the following elements: a) Scope: The bank’s core business areas, products/services across the main geographies that the bank operates in have been as described under 1.1. have been considered in the scope of the analysis.b) Scale of Exposure: In identifying its areas of most significant impact the bank has considered where its core business/its major activities lie in terms of industries, technologies and geographies.c) Context & Relevance:  Your bank has taken into account the most relevant challenges and priorities related to sustainable development in the countries/regions in which it operates.d) Scale and intensity/salience of impact: In identifying its areas of most significant impact, the bank has considered the scale and intensity/ salience of the (potential) social, economic and environmental impacts resulting from the bank’s activities and provision of products and services. Show that building on this analysis, the bank has • Identified and disclosed its areas of most significant (potential) positive and negative impact• Identified strategic business opportunities in relation to the increase of positive impacts / reduction of negative impactsIntroductionBuilding on our track record of over 20 years of work on climate change, sustainability and ESG issues, Citi’s approach to impact analysis is a process that has developed organically for our priority strategic initiatives. Prior to becoming a signatory to the Principles, we were engaged in this impact assessment process and we continue to learn from it and adapt it to new and emerging best practices. As such, our process involves concurrent workstreams that provide continuous feedback for the monitoring of potential impacts. This integrated process aligns with the directional intent of the Principles to “embed sustainability at the strategic, portfolio, and transactional levels across all business areas.” We recognize that any approach towards impact analysis is never complete, and the guidance developed by the PRB working groups can be used to help complement our existing work. Additionally, for financial institutions that are beginning their work to explore areas of greatest impacts, we regard the Principles as an efficient framework for embarking on this level of analysis. We plan to use the Principles and reporting from our peers to benchmark the impact areas we have identified and ensure that we are addressing society’s needs in the regions in which we operate and the markets that we serve. Citi’s ApproachCiti’s approach to impact consists of multiple concurrent processes, summarized below. Note that these processes, as described, do not necessarily occur in the order presented. 1. Feedback Pathways: To identify potential impact areas, we engage a number of internal and external stakeholders, partners and tools, including:a) Periodic stakeholder engagement:  Citi regularly reviews its stakeholder partnerships across a range of functions including Global Public Affairs; Investor Relations; Human Resources and Corporate Governance as well as Sustainability; Government Affairs and other teams in Public Affairs. Examples of our stakeholder engagements from 2021 are highlighted in the Stakeholder Engagement at Citi section of this report. Furthermore, we periodically have feedback sessions for stakeholders including clients, investors and NGOs facilitated by the nonprofit sustainability advocacy organization Ceres. These sessions focus on areas such as our Sustainable Progress Strategy and approach to addressing climate change including, most recently, our setting of net zero targets and measurement of baseline emissions. For more information, please see pages 26-27 of our 2021 TCFD Report. b) Partnerships with trade organizations: Becoming a signatory to global industry initiatives and participating in working groups keeps us abreast of emerging issues and best practices for addressing them. Engagements with organizations such as the Equator Principles, Institute of International Finance (IIF), United Nations Environment Programme Finance Initiative (UNEP FI) and GISD highlight potential issues, increasing awareness of our own potential impacts as a global bank. Such involvement also allows for opportunities to support public policy and regulation that encourages sustainable development.c) Third-party ratings:Analyses conducted by third-party organizations allow Citi to benchmark our approaches to certain ESG issues against standardized frameworks and methodologies. Such ratings and their accompanying reports identify areas for improvement and provide useful data that can help drive performance. 2021 ESG Report:• Our Material ESG Issues: Citi in a Global Context• Stakeholder Engagement at Citi• Sustainable Finance• Sustainable Progress • Climate Risk and Net Zero• Equitable and Resilient  CommunitiesExternal References:• 2021 TCFD Report• Action for Racial Equity• Banking in Color • Closing the Racial Inequality Gaps• Environmental and Social Policies• Environmental and Social Policy Framework • Net Zero Commitment• Sustainable Progress Strategy• The Devaluation of Assets in Black Neighborhoods • The Racial Wealth Gap• 2021 10-K	 	High-Level Summary of Bank’s Response (continued)d) Public-Private Partnerships:Working with research organizations, academic institutions and in the case of our racial equity work, initiatives like the U.S. Treasury OCC’s Project REACh (Roundtable for Economic Access and Change) allows Citi the opportunity to direct private sector resources towards public-sector initiatives while also providing first-hand insight into the issues facing the clients, countries and communities with which we work. 2. Normalization of Feedback: Given the myriad streams of incoming feedback and the numerous potential impact areas identified by the pathways described above, we use the following tools to help identify which areas are the most salient and actionable: a) Materiality Assessments: We periodically conduct materiality assessments to identify our most relevant (or “material”) reporting topics from an ESG perspective — which is a broader standard than that used in our financial disclosures. Such assessments provide a methodological way to gauge and quantify the relative salience of potential impact areas to our key stakeholders. This assessment also mirrors — and informs — our increased strategic efforts on these issues. It has also driven our increased reporting on these material topics.b) Research:Citi maintains strong relationships with academic institutions, think tanks and industry groups that periodically publish reports highlighting developing trends and areas of economic and social impact. Citi also considers research conducted by our thought leadership group, Citi Global Perspectives & Solutions (Citi GPS), which analyzes the global economy’s most demanding challenges. c) Consideration of core business areas, products/services and the geographies we work in:Qualitative and quantitative factors such as market presence, sectoral exposure and revenue associated with certain businesses and regions may also contribute to our assessment of our potential impacts. Citi’s Initial Impact AreasThe following describes considerations taken as part of our ESG impact analysis approach, which identified our two areas of greatest impact: climate change globally and racial equity in the United States. Note: As mentioned in our response to disclosure 1.1 of this index, during 2021, Citi was managed pursuant to two operating segments, ICG and GCB, and and the reporting structure changed in Q1 2022, as described on page 6 of our 2021 10-K. The findings below are based on the GCB and ICG reporting structure during 2021. However, we believe the conclusions will be applicable to the new structure in 2022.Scope and Scale:In our initial review of potential impact areas, we consider our core business activities under our two primary segments, GCB and ICG, the regions they serve and the revenues attributed to businesses within each.Regions: • GCB: North America; Latin America; Asia • ICG: North America; Europe, Middle East, and Africa (EMEA); Latin America; AsiaCore Business Activities:• GCB: Retail banking; Branded cards; Retail services*• ICG: Investment banking (advisory and equity and debt underwriting), Markets (fixed income markets, equity markets, securities services and other),    Treasury and trade solutions, Corporate lending and Private bank * This GCB business is in North America onlyFindings (Based on 2021 10-K filing):GCB: In 2021, revenues for retail banking activity in Latin America and Asia were nearly double the revenue of branded cards in these regions. In North America, the opposite was true, with branded cards exceeding retail banking revenues. However, absolute revenue from retail banking in North America was highest among the three regions. Likewise, aggregate revenue for all three GCB businesses in North America exceeded Latin America and Asia combined. ICG: Unlike GCB, which had a majority of its revenue concentrated in North America, revenues for aggregate ICG activity were more evenly distributed among the primary regions, reflecting this segment’s global work. Among the highest revenue-generating activities were markets and securities services (particularly fixed income activity) and treasury and trade solutions. Additionally, we consider activity outside of our core businesses. For example, through strategic grant-making efforts, the Citi Foundation promotes economic progress in low-income communities around the world, including programs that increase financial inclusion. The Citi Impact Fund is a $200 million venture capital fund with a mission of investing in double bottom line companies that are addressing societal changes. The fund prioritizes companies that are led or owned by women or racial/ethnic minorities and that are addressing societal challenges, such as reaching low- and moderate-income households with innovative financial and workforce services, delivering solutions for the climate transition economy and addressing needs for inclusive healthcare and housing.Initial Areas of Focus:GCB: Based on the screening above, we focused on North America, given the concentration of revenue generation there, and focused on global activity for ICG. While GCB revenue in North America during 2021 was driven by our branded cards activity, we feel that a focus on retail banking has more impact, considering the potential societal benefits from small business lending and greater access to financial services and credit through programs like the Citi® Access Account Package.ICG: Although our fixed income markets and treasury and trade solutions activity generated the most revenue during 2021, they serve to support market-making activity and cash-management capacity for clients and thus have more indirect impact. We concluded that our corporate lending and underwriting activity is the most directly associated with impact, and that through these activities we can be more influential and actionable. This is supported by our industry group partnerships described in the Context and Relevance section below. Therefore, global corporate lending is the scope of our initial focus.High-Level Summary of Bank’s Response (continued)We also consider activities of the Citi Foundation and Impact Fund, where they complement Citi’s ESG-related goals and efforts alongside our core business activities. In the future we will consider corporate underwriting.Context and RelevanceFrom the feedback pathways described in the Citi’s Approach section above, we maintain awareness of the most relevant sustainable development challenges and priorities in the countries and regions in which we operate. Below, we discuss our focus on climate change mitigation globally and racial equity in the United States.Global Context:The climate crisis is one of the most critical challenges facing our global society and economy in the 21st century. The data is irrefutable and the world’s climate scientists agree: Urgent action must be taken to address the current and potential impacts of climate change, including chronic changes to temperature and precipitation, diminishing polar sea ice, rising sea levels and more intense and frequent extreme weather events. 2021 was the sixth warmest year on record. That year, we experienced devastating wildfires on the West Coast of the U.S. and in Australia, and one of the most active hurricane seasons in the Atlantic. Additionally, the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change’s (IPCC’s) 6th Assessment Report, released in 2021, further highlights the urgent need to address climate change. Reports also show that vulnerable and marginalized communities are likely to bear a disproportionate share of any physical climate impacts.U.S. Context:A wide range of data and studies have found that many major gaps in economic opportunity, education, income, housing and wealth run along racial lines, particularly between Black and white households. Some gaps remain wide 60 years after the civil rights movement and some, including in homeownership rates and college degree attainment, are even wider now. These gaps have not only had implications for Black Americans and other people of color but the broader economy as well. Over the last few years, the disproportionate impact of COVID-19 on communities of color and growing demand for racial justice further highlighted the impacts of racial inequity.Intensity and Salience Climate Change: We have employed a number of tools to assess the intensity and salience of climate change impacts: We published baseline emissions for our Energy and Power loan portfolios in accordance with the Partnership for Carbon Accounting Financials (PCAF) standard and established emissions targets, with intentions to analyze the emissions of other carbon-intensive sectors in the future. Several industry-wide initiatives also identify corporate lending as a key impact area with potential to mitigate climate change: • The PCAF standard was established to assess financed emissions with an initial focus on lending• The UNEP FI Guidelines for Climate Target Setting for Banks (“UNEP FI Guidelines”) focus on lending and investment activities• PCAF also formed a Capital Markets Working Group, with which Citi has been involved, to develop standards for measuring emissions associated with underwriting activity — an area of activity that Citi will also explore for its potential impacts. Racial Equity: For over 20 years, Citi and the Citi Foundation have invested in organizations and partnerships that support financial inclusion and expanding economic opportunities for lowincome families and communities of color, such as the Asset Building Policy Network. Through engagement with these and other stakeholders, including minority depository institutions (MDIs), we have enhanced our understanding of the structural inequities that fuel the racial wealth gap and their impact on communities. Numerous publications and research reports articulate the scale, intensity and salience of racial equity (see External References). Additionally, the Citi GPS report, Closing the Racial Inequality Gaps, articulates the economic impacts of the racial wealth gap. The analysis in the report shows that if four key racial gaps for Black people — wages, education, housing and investment — had been closed 20 years ago, $16 trillion could have been added to the U.S. economy. And if the gaps were closed as of 2020, $5 trillion could have been added to U.S. GDP over the next five years.Next StepsOur work towards addressing our areas of greatest impact is never complete, and we anticipate the following areas of activity as we move toward further implementation of the principles. Climate Change: As per our NZBA commitments, we will set targets for and establish baseline emissions for additional carbon-intensive sectors, such as Auto Manufacturing, Commercial Real Estate, Steel and Thermal Coal Mining, with additional sectors such as Agriculture, Aluminum, Cement, Iron and other segments of the Transportation sector to follow, as methodological capabilities evolve to accommodate them. Additionally, once a capital markets methodology is finalized and published by PCAF, Citi plans to integrate these emissions into annual disclosures and targets. Racial Equity:As discussed in the Action for Racial Equity section of this report, we seek to lead and expand firmwide engagement with MDIs, diverse broker-dealers and diverse asset managers through our newly formed Diverse Financial Institutions Group. We are also conducting a third-party racial equity audit to assess our efforts to address the racial wealth gap in the United States through implementation of Action for Racial Equity. Biodiversity:We recognize that loss of biodiversity globally is an increasing emergency, and we are continuing to expand our understanding of the complex dynamics between climate and biodiversity. These two topics are interconnected, and there are increasing concerns that climate change, along with other human activity, has significantly stressed natural systems and contributed to ongoing extinction events. Although there is increasing focus on biodiversity, there has historically been limited information available to understand how companies rely on and impact natural capital as well as natural capital’s impact on climate. Citi is a member of the Taskforce on Nature-Related Financial Disclosures (TNFD) Forum and participated in an informal working group prior to the TNFD’s launch to develop its workplan to create a complementary framework to TCFD focused on reporting evolving nature-related risks. For our impact analysis, we have identified impacts associated with our core businesses and their portfolios as described in the introduction to this section. We may further refine this process and increase the scope of our impact analysis as we explore different methodologies in subsequent reporting.Reporting and Self- 	High-Level Summary of Bank’s Response	ReferencesAssessment Requirements 2.2 Target Setting Show that the bank has set and published a minimum of two Specific, Measurable (can be qualitative or quantitative), Achievable, Relevant and Time-bound (SMART) targets, which address at least two of the identified “areas of most significant impact”, resulting from the bank’s activities and provision of products and services. Show that these targets are linked to and drive alignment with and greater contribution to appropriate SDGs, the goals of the Paris Agreement, and other relevant international, national or regional frameworks. The bank should have identified a baseline (assessed against a particular year) and have set targets against this baseline.Show that the bank has analysed and acknowledged significant (potential) negative impacts of the set targets on other dimensions of the SDG/climate change/society’s goals and that it has set out relevant actions to mitigate those as far as feasible to maximize the net positive impact of the set targets. As part of our initial impact analysis work, we have developed targets for each of the identified impact areas:Climate ChangeNet Zero Commitment:In 2021, we announced our commitment to net zero GHG emissions by 2050, including net zero GHG emissions for our own operations by 2030. In early 2022, we published our initial net zero plan, baseline emissions and interim 2030 targets for our Energy and Power loan portfolios. For more information, see the Climate Risk and Net Zero section of this report. $1 Trillion Commitment to Sustainable Finance:In 2021 we announced our $1 trillion sustainable finance by 2030 commitment, which includes a $500 Billion Environmental Finance Goal toward the financing and facilitation of a wide array of climate solutions, such as renewable energy, clean technology, water conservation and sustainable transportation. The $1 trillion commitment also includes $500 billion in social finance toward investments in affordable basic infrastructure, affordable housing, diversity and equity, economic inclusion, education, food security and healthcare.Thermal Coal Mining Exposure:Within our ESRM Policy, we have included a commitment to eliminate our exposure to thermal coal mining companies by 2030, and in early 2021, we also expanded our policy related to coal-fired power. For more information, see our Environmental and Social Policy Framework.These goals will drive alignment with SDGs 7 (Affordable and Clean Energy), 9 (Industry, Innovation, and Infrastructure) and 13 (Climate Action).Racial EquityAction for Racial Equity:In 2020, Citi and the Citi Foundation committed $1 Billion in strategic initiatives through 2023 to help close the racial wealth gap. Our pledge focuses on four key goals and outcomes:• Expand banking and access to credit in communities of color• Invest in Black entrepreneurship• Invest in affordable housing and promote the growth of Black homeownership• Strengthen Citi’s policies and practices in order to become an anti-racist institutionThese goals will drive alignment with SDGs 8 (Decent Work and Economic Growth) and 11 (Sustainable Cities and Communities).2021 ESG Report:• Sustainable Finance• Climate Risk and Net Zero• Action for Racial Equity• Citi Impact FundExternal References:• Action for Racial Equity• Environmental and Social Policy Framework• Net Zero CommitmentWe have established a firm-wide target for net zero emissions, updated our prior environmental finance target to be a comprehensive commitment to sustainable finance, which now includes social criteria, maintain Sector Approaches related to our exposure to the coal industry, and established goals under a racial equity initiative. We believe these are in line with the requirements of the Principles.Reporting and Self- 	High-Level Summary of Bank’s Response	ReferencesAssessment Requirements 2.3 Plans for Target Implementation and MonitoringShow that your bank has defined actions and milestones to meet the set targets.Show that your bank has put in place the means to measure and monitor progress against the set targets. Definitions of key performance indicators, any changes in these definitions, and any rebasing of baselines should be transparent. Measures and actions we plan to put in place:Climate Change:In early 2022, we released our 2021 TCFD Report, which highlights potential emissions-reduction approaches for our Energy and Power loan portfolios to reach net zero GHG emissions. In the initial net zero plan for these portfolios, we provide a phased timeline of actions and measures to achieve our interim 2030 targets including client transition assessment; advisory and finance; clean tech finance; public policy engagement, risk management; and portfolio management. These areas of activity are detailed further in the report. Racial Equity:In November 2021, we released our Year One Progress report, which summarizes progress made against our Action for Racial Equity commitments to help close the racial wealth gap and expand economic mobility for communities of color in the United States. The report also includes overviews on our approach to working with MDIs, providing venture capital to Black founders, supporting more equitable rental housing, embedding equity in asset management and leveraging philanthropy from the Citi Foundation to support small businesses. In October 2021, we committed to conduct an audit of Action for Racial Equity, which intends to assess the design and implementation of our effort and will help inform how to adapt and grow our work to address the racial wealth gap. Key Performance Indicators:Citi will report progress toward our targets annually using the key performance indicators listed below:Net Zero Commitment:• Emissions associated with key carbon-intensive sectors• Emissions associated with our operations$1 Trillion Sustainable Finance Commitment:• Financial performance broken down by region, criteria and business• Environmental and social impacts Thermal Coal Mining Credit Exposure:• Credit exposure to thermal coal companies Action for Racial Equity: • Growth in banking and access to credit in communities of color• Amount of equity investments in Black-owned firms• Amount of equity investments in MDIs• Growth of consumer lending capabilities that increase access to mortgage products and services2021 ESG Report:• Sustainable Finance• Climate Risk and Net Zero• Action for Racial Equity• Citi Impact FundExternal References:• 2021 TCFD Report• Action for Racial Equity• ARE Year One Progress Report• Environmental and Social Policy Framework• Net Zero CommitmentCiti has established strategies and initiatives to implement the identified targets. We have identified key performance indicators that we will report annually to monitor progress toward these targets. While the provided indicators are not an exhaustive list, we anticipate that these metrics may evolve as we move further toward implementation. Reporting and Self- 	High-Level Summary of Bank’s Response	ReferencesAssessment Requirements 2.4 Progress on Implementing TargetsFor each target separately: Show that your bank has implemented the actions it had previously defined to meet the set target.Or explain why actions could not be implemented / needed to be changed and how your bank is adapting its plan to meet its set target. Report on your bank’s progress over the last 12 months (up to 18 months in your first reporting after becoming a signatory) toward achieving each of the set targets and the impact your progress resulted in (where feasible and appropriate, banks should include quantitative disclosures).Net Zero Commitment:Following the announcement of our net zero commitment in March 2021, in early 2022, we released our initial net zero plan for our Energy and Power loan portfolios, including baseline emissions and 2030 emissions reduction targets. We will continue our work to develop emissions baselines and targets for additional carbon-intensive sectors in our portfolio.$1 Trillion Sustainable Finance Goal:Building on our $250 Billion Environmental Finance Goal, we announced a commitment to a $1 trillion in sustainable finance by 2030. The commitment expands the prior $250 Billion Environmental Goal to $500 Billion and includes $500 Billion toward Social Finance. Detailed progress toward the first two years of tracking toward this commitment is provided in the Sustainable Finance section of this report. As of YE2021, we have financed and facilitated $163.1 billion toward our Environmental Finance Goal and $59.0 billion toward our Social Finance Goal for a total of $222.1 billion toward the $1 trillion commitment. Thermal Coal Mining Exposure:Following the publication of the 2020 baseline, we saw a reduction of 30% in 2021, as detailed in this report. Action for Racial Equity: By November 2021, one year into our three-year pledge, Citi and the Citi Foundation had already exceeded our $1 billion commitment to invest in initiatives expanding economic opportunity for communities of color. For more details, please refer to the Equitable and Resilient Communities section in this report. 2021 ESG Report:• Sustainable Finance• Climate Risk and Net Zero• Action for Racial Equity External References:• 2021 TCFD Report• Action for Racial Equity• Environmental and Social Policy Framework• Net Zero CommitmentWe have set the targets described above and are in the early stages of implementing the measures we have put in place. In some cases, such as for our Action for Racial Equity, Citi and the Citi Foundation have exceeded the initiative’s financial targets. We will report on progress made toward achieving our targets in our subsequent reporting.Principle 3: Clients and CustomersWe will work responsibly with our clients and our customers to encourage sustainable practices and enable economic activities that create shared prosperity for current and future generations.3.1 Provide an overview of the policies and practices your bank has in place and/or is planning to put in place to promote responsible relationships with its customers. This should include high-level information on any programmes and actions implemented (and/or planned), their scale and, where possible, the results thereof. Citi has a number of policies and systems in place to ensure we treat customers responsibly and fairly: • Citi Code of Conduct • Citi’s Treating Customers Fairly Principles• Global Consumer Fairness Policy • Global Financial Access PolicyMore details can be found in the Serving Our Customers and Clients Responsibly section of this report.2021 ESG Report:• Serving our Customers and Clients ResponsiblyExternal References:• Citi Code of ConductReporting and Self- 	High-Level Summary of Bank’s Response	ReferencesAssessment Requirements 3.2 Describe how your bank has worked with and/or is planning to work with its clients and customers to encourage sustainable practices and enable sustainable economic activities. This should include information on actions planned/implemented, products and services developed, and, where possible, the impacts achieved.Through our $1 trillion commitment to sustainable finance, we will finance and facilitate a wide array of climate solutions, such as renewable energy, clean technology, water conservation and sustainable transportation as well as activities in social finance, which include investments in education, affordable housing and basic infrastructure, healthcare, economic inclusion and food security. Reaching the goal will require the development of innovative financing solutions, increasing engagement and helping clients across all sectors, no matter where they are in their own sustainability journeys, to enable more sustainable business models and practices. For more information, please see the Sustainable Finance section in this report. To facilitate these transitions, we have established dedicated teams embedded across our businesses to offer strategic sustainability and ESG services and solutions. Our business groups, including Banking, Capital Markets and Advisory; Global Markets; Global Wealth Management; and Treasury and Trade Solutions, all have dedicated bankers or teams focused on advising clients and offering customized ESG-themed products and services.Under our net zero commitment, we will engage clients in carbon-intensive sectors that have low-carbon transition opportunities. We have formed specialized business units to work closely with clients to support their business plans as they transition to net zero including the Natural Resources & Clean Energy Transition team; the Sustainability & Corporate Transitions team; and the Sustainable Debt Capital Markets team. For more information, please see our 2021 TCFD Report. Our ESRM Policy helps us finance projects and activities responsibly by engaging our clients on environmental and social risks and good practices. Ongoing engagement with our clients is an important part of our ESRM process. When we first established our ESRM Policy, our engagements were tied to specific, project-related financial transactions and their associated environmental and social risks and mitigation efforts. However, as we have developed Sector Approaches and Areas of High Caution over the years, we have added corporate-level reviews and client engagements in a number of sectors. These sector-specific risk review processes encourage dialogue between Citi and our clients about the material environmental and social risks associated with their operations, enabling us to develop a better understanding of prevailing industry practices and our clients’ performance and guide our clients toward better sustainability practices.2021 ESG Report:• Sustainable Finance• Climate Risk and Net Zero• Risk Management > Environmental and Social Risk Management External References:• 2021 TCFD Report• Environmental and Social Policy Framework• Net Zero CommitmentPrinciple 4: StakeholdersWe will proactively and responsibly consult, engage and partner with relevant stakeholders to achieve society’s goals.4.1 Describe which stakeholders (or groups/types of stakeholders) your bank has consulted, engaged, collaborated or partnered with for the purpose of implementing these Principles and improving your bank’s impacts. This should include a highlevel overview of how your bank has identified relevant stakeholders and what issues were addressed/results achieved.Citi believes that we are best able to drive business value when we serve the interests of a wide array of stakeholders, including our shareholders. We made a deliberate effort to continue stakeholder engagement in a pandemic environment. To fulfill this approach, we regularly review our stakeholder partnerships across a range of functions, including Global Public Affairs, Investor Relations, Human Resources and Corporate Governance, as well as Sustainability & ESG, Government Affairs and other teams in Public Affairs.A summary of the groups we have engaged with, the topics addressed, and results achieved is provided in Stakeholder Engagement section of this report. We also highlight our climate-related engagement with clients and trade associations in our 2021 TCFD Report.2021 ESG Report:• Stakeholder Engagement• Climate Risk and Net Zero >  Participation in Net Zero  Frameworks• Climate Risk and Net Zero >  Engagement• Risk Management > Client  Engagement External References:• 2021 TCFD ReportReporting and Self- 	High-Level Summary of Bank’s Response	ReferencesAssessment Requirements Principle 5: Governance & CultureWe will implement our commitment to these Principles through effective governance and a culture of responsible banking.5.1 Describe the relevant governance structures, policies and procedures your bank has in place/is planning to put in place to manage significant positive and negative (potential) impacts and support effective implementation of the Principles. Citi’s Board of Directors plays an important role in providing oversight of our efforts to ensure responsible business practices. For example, the Nomination, Governance and Public Affairs Committee (NGPAC) of the Board oversees Citi’s global ESG activities and performance, and the Risk Management Committee (RMC) provides oversight of Citi’s Risk Management function, reviews Citi’s risk appetite framework, including reputational risk appetite, and reviews key risk policies, including those focused on environmental and social risk. The Ethics, Conduct and Culture Committee of the Board oversees management’s efforts to foster a culture of ethics within the company and receives regular reports from senior management on the progress of those efforts.In 2021, we formed a new Global ESG Council consisting of senior members of management in order to provide enhanced oversight of our ESG activities and goals. Additionally, to support the development and launch of our net zero plan, we formed a Net Zero Task Force in 2021. The Task Force, led by our CSO, includes leaders from diverse business units and many other functions throughout Citi. Citi also has a Global Sustainability Steering Committee, a senior-level committee formed to advise on our sustainability and climate change strategy.For more details on governance for ESG and sustainability issues, please refer to the ESG Governance section of this report. For more details on Citi’s climate change governance, please see our 2021 TCFD Report.2021 ESG Report: • ESG Governance at Citi External References:• 2021 TCFD Report• Ethics, Conduct and Culture Committee Charter• Nomination, Governance and Public Affairs Committee Charter• Risk Management Committee Charter
Reporting and Self- 	High-Level Summary of Bank’s Response	ReferencesAssessment Requirements 5.2 Describe the initiatives and measures your bank has implemented or is planning to implement to foster a culture of responsible banking among its employees. This should include a high-level overview of capacity building, inclusion in remuneration structures and performance management and leadership communication, amongst others. Citi has implemented a number of programs and initiatives that instill a culture of responsible banking among its employees, listed below:Code of Conduct:Citi’s Code of Conduct outlines the standards of ethics and professional behavior expected of employees and representatives of Citi when dealing with clients, business colleagues, shareholders, communities and each other. It also provides an overview of key legal and regulatory requirements and select global policies. Citi’s Code of Conduct applies to all directors, officers and employees of Citi worldwide. Upon joining Citi, employees must acknowledge that they have read and will comply with our Code. Programs and Training: Citi has policies, procedures and internal controls to comply with anti-bribery laws, and we conduct an annual bribery risk assessment of all global business lines. We provide our staff with anti-bribery training annually and supplement it with targeted training and communications as needed. Citi’s Anti-Money Laundering (AML) Program protects our clients, our franchise and the global financial system from the risks of money laundering and terrorist financing. The program includes more than 5,600 employees globally, including 225 designated AML Country Officers covering every Citi business, function and geographic area. Global Financial Crimes Investigations and Intelligence (GFCII) tackles financial crime and provides a globally consistent approach to the prevention and detection of risk. GFCII leverages partnerships with law enforcement, nonprofits and internal stakeholders to obtain actionable intelligence, allowing for proactive identification of illicit activity and effective mitigation of risk. Our Sanctions Program includes policies and procedures, risk category statement and tolerance thresholds, enterprise-wide screening, annual risk assessments and audits of sanctions control processes, employee training and a diverse team of Compliance professionals stationed around the world.For more information, please see Managing Corruption and Tax-Related Risks section of this report.ESRM Training: Key risk and banking personnel are provided with annual training on our ESRM Policy to help them identify triggers for engagement with our specialist ESRM team. For more information, please see the ESRM Management section of this report. Serving Our Customers and Clients Responsibly: We have policies and systems in place to help ensure that we treat customers responsibly and fairly including our Code of Conduct, responsible marketing practices, our Treating Customers Fairly Principles, our Global Financial Access Policy and our Global Consumer Fairness Policy. Remuneration: The Personnel and Compensation Committee of the Board holds senior executives responsible, and in turn senior executives hold their team members responsible, for managing our sustainability and other ESGrelated efforts through incentive compensation decisions. Citi’s incentive compensation program is discretionary, not formulaic. For details on ESGlinked remuneration for key executives and managers, please refer to the Remuneration section of this report. 2021 ESG Report:• ESG Governance at Citi >  Remuneration• Our Transformation > Ethics and Culture at Citi• Risk Management > Managing  Corruption and Tax-Related Risks• Risk Management > ESRM Training• Serving Our Customers and  Clients Responsibly External References:• Citi Code of ConductReporting and Self- 	High-Level Summary of Bank’s Response	ReferencesAssessment Requirements 5.3 Governance Structure for Implementation of the PrinciplesShow that your bank has a governance structure in place for the implementation of the PRB, including: a) target-setting and actions to achieve targets set b) remedial action in the event of targets or milestones not being achieved or unexpected negative impacts being detected.Our Sustainability & ESG team, in collaboration with partners across the bank, is responsible for developing sustainability and climate-related targets, monitoring progress toward their achievement to ensure we are on track and identifying and addressing any unexpected negative impacts. Our Chief Sustainability Officer, Head of Community Investing and Development and other senior executives have oversight over target-setting, measures put in place to achieve the targets and determining remedial action where targets are not on track, or where measures need to be put in place to address unforeseen negative impacts.We track our progress toward achieving our targets via reports to the NGPAC and/or the full Board of Directors. The Chief Sustainability Officer and Head of Community Investing and Development periodically report to the Board on progress made with achieving our targets and any remedial action taken to ensure achievement of targets and/or how negative impacts were addressed. Reports are also provided to the Global ESG council on a periodic basis for progress towards our Action for Racial Equity commitments, $1 trillion sustainable finance commitment and net zero targets. 2021 ESG Report:• ESG Governance at Citi• Our Transformation > Ethics and Culture at CitiWe have progressed substantially in fulfilling this requirement. The firm has a governance structure with oversight of ESG issues and will ensure that the Principles are implemented, managing significant impacts and setting and monitoring targets. The Sustainability & ESG team leads day-to-day implementation of the Principles in concert with other teams throughout the organization.Principle 6: Transparency & AccountabilityWe will periodically review our individual and collective implementation of these Principles and be transparent about and accountable for our positive and negative impacts and our contribution to society’s goals.6.1 Progress on Implementing the Principles for Responsible Banking Show that your bank has progressed on implementing the six Principles over the last 12 months (up to 18 months in your first reporting after becoming a signatory) in addition to the setting and implementation of targets in minimum two areas (see 2.1-2.4). Show that your bank has considered existing and emerging international/ regional good practices relevant for the implementation of the six Principles for Responsible Banking. Based on this, it has defined priorities and ambitions to align with good practice.Show that your bank has implemented/ is working on implementing changes in existing practices to reflect and be in line with existing and emerging international/regional good practices and has made progress on its implementation of these Principles. In 2021, Citi made considerable progress toward implementing the Principles and our targets, as described below. Net Zero Commitment:In January 2022, we released our initial net zero plan, including baseline emissions and 2030 emissions reduction targets for our Energy and Power loan portfolios. Additionally, in developing our initial net zero plan, we have participated in key net zero frameworks, including our continued participation in PCAF as well as the NZBA and the Glasgow Financial Alliance for Net Zero (GFANZ) of which we are founding members. For more information on these organizations and how they serve as converging net zero guideposts across the financial industry, please see our 2021 TCFD Report.Citi remains committed to working closely with clients to support their business plans as they transition to net zero. In March 2021, we created the Natural Resources & Clean Energy Transition team in order to drive client engagement efforts in the Energy, Power and Chemicals sectors. This team includes corporate and investment bankers with deep knowledge of these sectors and unites them under a single umbrella to more effectively evaluate and pursue opportunities to assist our clients with the net zero transition.$1 Trillion Sustainable Finance Commitment:We recently established a $1 trillion by 2030 sustainable finance commitment, which expands our Environmental Finance Goal to $500 billion, with a focus on circular economy, clean technology, energy efficiency, green buildings, renewable energy, sustainable agriculture and land use, sustainable transportation and water quality and conservation. This commitment also includes $500 billion in social finance activity in affordable basic infrastructure, affordable housing, diversity and equity, economic inclusion, education, food security and healthcare. The expanded emphasis on social finance allows Citi to address a more holistic set of societal needs, in addition to protecting the environment and fighting global climate change, all supporting the UN SDGs. Multiple businesses and banking teams across Citi contribute environmental and social activities that count toward the $1 trillion sustainable finance commitment. Progress toward the $1 trillion commitment can be found in the Sustainable Finance section of this report.2021 ESG Report:• Citi and the Sustainable Development Goals• Our $1 Trillion Commitment• Climate Risk and Net Zero• Our Commitment to Social Finance• Risk Management > Environmental and Social Risk Management External References:• 2021 TCFD Report• Action for Racial Equity	 	High-Level Summary of Bank’s Response (continued)Climate Risk: In early 2022, we released our 2021 TCFD Report, detailing our continued work to incorporate climate risk and opportunity identification and management into our overall business strategy and efforts. Additionally, during 2021, we expanded our climate change governance through the formation of a Global ESG Council, consisting of senior members of management. We also grew our dedicated Climate Risk team to accommodate additional areas of expertise. For more information, please see our 2021 TCFD Report.Action for Racial Equity: By November 2021 — one year into our three-year pledge — Citi and the Citi Foundation had already invested $1 billion into initiatives expanding economic opportunity for communities of color, putting us on track to exceed our original $1.1 billion commitment set in 2020. In 2021, we created a Diverse Financial Institutions Group, a dedicated team within Citi that is serving as a hub to lead and expand firmwide engagement with MDIs, diverse broker-dealers and diverse asset managers. Additionally, we have committed to conducting a Racial Equity Audit to evaluate our Action for Racial Equity work by the end of 2022.  For more information, see the Action for Racial Equity section in this report. Engagement on SDGs: Citi remains a member of the GISD Alliance, which includes 30 of the world’s largest investors committed to accelerating the financing of the SDGs. Biodiversity: Following our participation in the informal working group for the TNFD, we have become a member of the TNFD Forum. Through our ongoing collaboration with TNFD, we are able to contribute to the development of nature-related reporting norms and standards and continue to refine our understanding of the complex dynamics between climate and biodiversity and our connection to those impacts through our financial relationships with our clients.Citi has made considerable progress towards implementing the principles including, identifying areas of impact, setting targets related to these impact areas and setting up internal resources to support the implementation of these targets and the Principles throughout the firm. 
Task Force on Climate-related Financial  Disclosures IndexThe following table indicates where readers can find information that addresses the TCFD requirements, either in this report or other publicly available documents. In addition, see our 2021 TCFD Report, which includes detailed information in response to TCFD requirements. DisclosureReport Section or Other DocumentationGovernancea) Describe the Board’s oversight of climate-related risks and opportunities.• 2021 TCFD Report• Nomination, Governance and Public Affairs Committee Charter b) Describe management’s role in assessing and managing climaterelated risks and opportunities.• Climate Risk and Net Zero• 2021 TCFD ReportStrategya) Describe the climate-related risks and opportunities the organization has identified over the short, medium and long term.• Our $1 Trillion Commitment• Financing the Low-Carbon Transition• Climate Risk and Net Zero• 2021 TCFD Report• Citi’s Environmental and Social Policy Framework b) Describe the impact of climaterelated risks and opportunities on the organization’s businesses, strategy and financial planning.• Financing the Low-Carbon Transition• Climate Risk and Net Zero• Sustainable Operations• Citi’s Environmental and Social Policy Framework c) Describe the resilience of the organization’s strategy, taking into consideration different climaterelated scenarios, including a 2°C or lower scenario.• Climate Risk and Net Zero• Sustainable Operations > Managing Climate Risk in Our Operations• 2021 TCFD ReportRisk Managementa) Describe the organization’s processes for identifying and assessing climate-related risks.• Climate Risk and Net Zero• Risk Management > Environmental and Social Risk Management• Citi’s Environmental and Social Policy Frameworkb) Describe the organization’s processes for managing climaterelated risks.• Climate Risk and Net Zero• Sustainable Operations > Managing Climate Risk in Our Operations• Risk Management > Environmental and Social Risk Management• Citi’s Environmental and Social Policy Frameworkc) Describe how processes for identifying, assessing and managing climate-related risks are integrated into the organization’s overall risk management.• Climate Risk and Net Zero• Sustainable Operations > Managing Climate Risk in Our Operations• Risk Management > Environmental and Social Risk Management• Citi’s Environmental and Social Policy Framework• 2021 10-K pages 118–119DisclosureReport Section or Other DocumentationMetrics and Targetsa) Disclose the metrics used by the organization to assess climaterelated risks and opportunities in line with its strategy and risk management process.• Our $1 Trillion Commitment• Climate Risk and Net Zero• Financing the Low-Carbon Transition• Sustainable Operations > Net Zero Commitment• Sustainable Operations > Operational Footprint Goals• Risk Management > Environmental and Social Risk Management• 2021 TCFD Report• Citi’s Environmental and Social Policy Frameworkb) Disclose Scope 1, Scope 2 and, if appropriate, Scope 3 greenhouse gas emissions, and the related risks.• Climate Risk and Net Zero• Sustainable Operations > Environmental Performance for Operations• Sustainable Operations > Environmental Impact Report• 2021 TCFD Reportc) Describe the targets used by the organization to manage climaterelated risks and opportunities and performance against targets.• Our $1 Trillion Commitment• Financing the Low-Carbon Transition• Climate Risk and Net Zero > Our Commitment to Reduce Financing for Coal• Climate Risk and Net Zero > Portfolio Analysis and Measurement• Sustainable Operations > Net Zero Commitment• Sustainable Operations > Operational Footprint Goals• Sustainable Operations > Environmental Performance for Operations
United Nations Global Compact IndexThis report serves as our 2021 communication on progress for the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC). Citi joined the UNGC in 2010, and we continue to embed the Compact’s 10 principles across our business and report on activities related to human rights, labor issues, the environment and anti-corruption.“Citi’s ongoing support and participation in the United Nations Global Compact reinforce our ESG agenda and work to support our clients, colleagues and communities. From enabling the transition to a net zero economy, to supporting the equitable growth of underserved communities around the world, we’re committed to continue playing our part to build a better world.”JANE FRASER, CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICERUNGC PrincipleReport section or other documentationHuman RightsPrinciple 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and• Human Rights > Our Commitment to Respect Human Rights• Human Rights > Identifying Human Rights Risks in Transactions• Citi Code of Conduct • Citi Statement on Human RightsPrinciple 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses.• Risk Management > Environmental and Social Risk Management• Human Rights• Citi Statement on Human RightsLaborPrinciple 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining;• Human Rights > Respecting the Human Rights of Our Employees• Citi Statement on Human RightsPrinciple 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor;• Human Rights > Addressing Forced Labor in Malaysia• Human Rights > Extending Respect for Human Rights Through Our Suppliers• Human Rights > Respecting Human Rights in Our Financing Decisions• Citi Statement of Supplier Principles • Citi Statement on Human Rights• Citi Modern Slavery DisclosuresPrinciple 5: the effective abolition of child labor; and• Human Rights > Respecting Human Rights in Our Financing Decisions• Citi Statement of Supplier Principles• Citi Statement on Human Rights• Citi Modern Slavery DisclosuresPrinciple 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation.• Action for Racial Equity > Action for Racial Equity: An Update on Our Progress• Diversity, Equity & Inclusion• Human Rights > Respecting the Human Rights of Our Employees• Human Rights > Extending Respect for Human Rights Through Our Suppliers • Citi Code of Conduct • Citi Requirements for Suppliers • Citi Statement of Supplier Principles • Citi Statement on Human Rights • Citi U.S. Affirmative Action and Equal Employment Opportunity Policy StatementEnvironmentPrinciple 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges;• Climate Risk and Net Zero• Risk Management > Environmental and Social Risk ManagementUNGC PrincipleReport section or other documentationPrinciple 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and• Our $1 Trillion Commitment• Financing the Low-Carbon Transition• Climate Risk and Net Zero• Sustainable Operations• Responsible Sourcing > Supplier Engagement and Evaluation• Responsible Sourcing > Supply Chain Sustainability Focus AreasPrinciple 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies.• Our $1 Trillion Commitment• Financing the Low-Carbon Transition• Climate Risk and Net ZeroAnti-corruptionPrinciple 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery.• Risk Management > Managing Corruption and Tax-Related Risks• Anti-Bribery Program• Anti-Money Laundering Program• Citi Code of Conduct• Citi Requirements for Suppliers • Citi Statement of Supplier Principles
United Nations Guiding Principles Reporting  Framework IndexWe have included information and disclosures in this report aligned with the United Nations Guiding Principles reporting framework. This reflects our support of the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights and our commitment to transparency and accountability regarding our human rights-related activities and policies. The following table indicates where readers can find information that addresses the framework requirements, either in this report or other publicly available documents.Section of the Framework	Report Section or Other DocumentationPart A: Governance of Respect for Human RightsPolicy commitmentA1	What does the company say publicly about its commitment to respect human rights?A1.1How has the public commitment been developed?• Human Rights > Our Commitment to Respect Human RightsA1.2Whose human rights does the public commitment address?• Human Rights > Our Commitment to Respect Human Rights• Citi Statement on Human RightsA1.3How is the public commitment disseminated?• Our Transformation > Code of ConductThe following documents, which state Citi’s commitment to respect human rights and our expectations about the commitment of others, are posted publicly: • Citi Code of Conduct  • Citi Requirements for Suppliers   • Citi Statement of Supplier Principles  • Citi Statement on Human RightsEmbedding respect for human rightsA2How does the company demonstrate the importance it attaches to the implementation of its human rights commitment?A2.1How is day-to-day responsibility for human rights performance organized within the company, and why?• ESG Governance at Citi• Diversity, Equity & Inclusion• Risk Management > Safeguarding Data and Protecting Customer Information• Risk Management > Policy Implementation• Human Rights > Due Diligence in Client Transactions• Responsible SourcingA2.2What kinds of human rights issues are discussed by senior management and by the Board, and why?• Human Rights > Our Salient Human Rights RisksA2.3How are employees and contract workers made aware of the ways in which respect for human rights should inform their decisions and actions?• Our Transformation > Code of Conduct• Risk Management > ESRM Training• Human Rights > Respecting the Human Rights of Our Employees• Human Rights > Learning and Engagement• Citi Code of Conduct  A2.4How does the company make clear in its business relationships the importance it places on respect for human rights?• Risk Management > Policy Implementation• Human Rights > Extending Respect for Human Rights Through Our Suppliers• Human Rights > Respecting Human Rights in Our Financing Decisions• Responsible Sourcing > Supplier Engagement and Evaluation• Citi Requirements for Suppliers   • Citi Statement of Supplier Principles A2.5What lessons has the company learned during the reporting period about achieving respect for human rights, and what has changed as a result?• Action for Racial Equity > Action for Racial Equity: An Update on Our Progress• Using Our Corporate Voice to Drive Change• Human Rights	Section of the Framework	Report Section or Other DocumentationPart B: Defining the Focus of ReportingStatement of salient issuesB1State the salient human rights issues associated with the company’s activities and business relationships during the reporting period.• Human Rights > Our Salient Human Rights Risks• Human Rights > Salient Human Rights Risks: Stakeholder Impacts• Human Rights > Identifying Human Rights Risks in Transactions• Citi Statement on Human RightsDetermination of salient issuesB2Describe how the salient human rights issues were determined, including any input from stakeholders.• Human Rights > Our Commitment to Respect Human RightsChoice of focal geographiesB3If reporting on the salient human rights issues focuses on particular geographies, explain how that choice was made.This report provides a breakdown of our human rights due diligence for several salient risks at the project level and a separate breakdown of our due diligence of these and other environmental and social risks at the regional and sector levels for purposes of fulfilling the transparency requirements of the Equator Principles. • Risk Management > 2021 Projects Covered by the Equator Principles• Risk Management > ESRM Consultation Data• Human Rights > Identifying Human Rights Risks in TransactionsAdditional severe impactsB4Identify any severe impacts on human rights that occurred or were still being addressed during the reporting period, but which fall outside of the salient human rights issues, and explain how they have been addressed.Part C: Management of Salient Human Rights IssuesSpecific policiesC1Does the company have any specific policies that address its salient human rights issues and, if so, what are they?C1.1How does the company make clear the relevance and significance of such policies to those who need to implement them?• Risk Management > ESRM Training• Human Rights > Respecting the Human Rights of Our Employees• Human Rights > Employee Training• Responsible Sourcing > Supplier Engagement and Evaluation• Citi Code of Conduct  • Citi Requirements for Suppliers • Citi Statement of Supplier PrinciplesStakeholder engagementC2What is the company’s approach to engagement with stakeholders in relation to each salient human rights issue?C2.1How does the company identify which stakeholders to engage with in relation to each salient issue, and when and how to do so?• Stakeholder Engagement at Citi• Risk Management > Monitoring the Changing Risk Landscape• Human Rights > Engaging Stakeholders• Responsible Sourcing > Supplier Engagement and EvaluationC2.2During the reporting period, which stakeholders has the company engaged with regarding each salient issue, and why?• Human Rights > Engaging Stakeholders• Responsible Sourcing > Supplier Engagement and EvaluationC2.3During the reporting period, how have the views of stakeholders influenced the company’s understanding of each salient issue and/or its approach to addressing it?• Human Rights > Engaging Stakeholders	Section of the Framework	Report Section or Other DocumentationAssessing impacts	C3	How does the company identify any changes in the nature of each salient human rights issue over time?C3.1During the reporting period, were there any notable trends or patterns in impacts related to a salient issue and, if so, what were they?• Human Rights > Addressing Forced Labor in Malaysia• Human Rights > Identifying Human Rights Risks in TransactionsC3.2During the reporting period, did any severe impacts occur that were related to a salient issue and, if so, what were they?Integrating findings and taking actionC4How does the company integrate its actions?findings about each salient human rights issue into its decision-making processes and C4.1How are those parts of the company whose decisions and actions can affect the management of salient issues, involved in finding and implementing solutions?• ESG Governance at Citi• Risk Management > Environmental and Social Risk Management• Human Rights > Respecting Human Rights in Our Financing DecisionsC4.2When tensions arise between the prevention or mitigation of impacts related to a salient issue and other business objectives, how are these tensions addressed?• Risk Management > Policy Implementation• Human Rights > Respecting Human Rights in Our Financing DecisionsC4.3During the reporting period, what action has the company taken to prevent or mitigate potential impacts related to each salient issue?• Action for Racial Equity > Action for Racial Equity: An Update on Our Progress • Affordable Housing• Diversity, Equity & Inclusion• Risk Management > Safeguarding Data and Protecting Customer Information• Human Rights > Addressing Forced Labor in Malaysia• Human Rights > Respecting the Human Rights of Our Employees• Human Rights > Protection of Indigenous Rights in Latin America• Human Rights > Identifying Human Rights Risks in TransactionsTracking performanceC5How does the company know if its efforts to address each salient human rights issue are effective in practice?C5.1	What specific examples from the reporting period illustrate whether each salient issue is being managed effectively?In 2021, we identified risks of impacts to racial/ethnic minorities in global supply chains. We took steps to mitigate the risks of our involvement in such impacts by limiting the scope of our financing to clients in some cases and ceasing business relationships in others. In particular, we enhanced our governance of human rights risks in the Asia Pacific region with a special Human Rights Task Force and also initiated a portfolio review of the Malaysia franchise, to evaluate forced labor concerns in clients’ operations across different industries.In addition, see the case studies below.  • Our $1 Trillion Commitment > Sustainable Finance in Action• Human Rights > Addressing Forced Labor in Malaysia• Human Rights > Protection of Indigenous Rights in Latin America• Human Rights > Identifying Human Rights Risks in Transactions• Responsible Sourcing > Supplier Engagement and Evaluation	Section of the Framework	Report Section or Other DocumentationRemediationC6	How does the company enable effective remedy if people are harmed by its actions or decisions in relation to a salient human rights issue?C6.1Through what means can the company receive complaints or concerns related to each salient issue?• Our Transformation > Escalating Business and Ethical Concerns• Human Rights > Reporting Mechanisms for Stakeholders• Citi Code of Conduct  C6.2How does the company know if people feel able and empowered to raise complaints or concerns?• Risk Management > Assessing Our Culture of EthicsC6.3How does the company process complaints and assess the effectiveness of outcomes?• Our Transformation > Assessing Our Culture of Ethics• Our Transformation > Escalating Business and Ethical Concerns• Human Rights > Providing Access to Remedy• Human Rights > Reporting Mechanisms for Stakeholders• Citi Code of ConductC6.4During the reporting period, what were the trends and patterns in complaints or concerns and their outcomes regarding each salient issue, and what lessons has the company learned?• Action for Racial Equity• Human Rights > Identifying Human Rights Risks in TransactionsC6.5During the reporting period, did the company provide or enable remedy for any actual impacts related to a salient issue and, if so, what are typical or significant examples?• Human Rights > Providing Access to Remedy

	 	Sustainable Finance 	Sustainable ProgressCITI 2021 ESG REPORT	3Contents 	ESGatCiti 	Sustainable Finance 	Sustainable Progress 	Equitable & Resilient Communities 	Talent & DEI 	Risk Management & Responsible Business 	AppendicesContents 	ESGatCiti 	Sustainable Finance 	Sustainable Progress 	Equitable & Resilient Communities 	Talent & DEI 	Risk Management & Responsible Business 	AppendicesCITI 2021 ESG REPORT	3CITI 2021 ESG REPORT	3CITI 2021 ESG REPORT	3Contents 	ESG at Citi 	SustainableFinance 	Sustainable Progress 	Equitable & Resilient Communities 	Talent & DEI 	Risk Management & Responsible Business 	AppendicesCITI 2021 ESG REPORT	3CITI 2021 ESG REPORT	3CITI 2021 ESG REPORT	3Contents 	ESG at Citi 	SustainableFinance 	Sustainable Progress 	Equitable & Resilient Communities 	Talent & DEI 	Risk Management & Responsible Business 	AppendicesCITI 2021 ESG REPORT	3CITI 2021 ESG REPORT	3CITI 2021 ESG REPORT	3Contents 	ESG at Citi 	SustainableFinance 	Sustainable Progress 	Equitable & Resilient Communities 	Talent & DEI 	Risk Management & Responsible Business 	AppendicesContents 	ESG at Citi 	SustainableFinance 	Sustainable Progress 	Equitable & Resilient Communities 	Talent & DEI 	Risk Management & Responsible Business 	AppendicesCITI 2021 ESG REPORT	3CITI 2021 ESG REPORT	3Contents 	ESG at Citi 	SustainableFinance 	Sustainable Progress 	Equitable & Resilient Communities 	Talent & DEI 	Risk Management & Responsible Business 	AppendicesCITI 2021 ESG REPORT	3CITI 2021 ESG REPORT	3CITI 2021 ESG REPORT	3CITI 2021 ESG REPORT	3	Contents 	ESG at Citi 	Sustainable Finance 	SustainableProgress 	Equitable & Resilient Communities 	Talent & DEI 	Risk Management & Responsible Business 	AppendicesCITI 2021 ESG REPORT	3CITI 2021 ESG REPORT	3	Contents 	ESG at Citi 	Sustainable Finance 	SustainableProgress 	Equitable & Resilient Communities 	Talent & DEI 	Risk Management & Responsible Business 	AppendicesCITI 2021 ESG REPORT	3Contents 	ESG at Citi 	Sustainable Finance 	SustainableProgress 	Equitable & Resilient Communities 	Talent & DEI 	Risk Management & Responsible Business 	AppendicesCITI 2021 ESG REPORT	3CITI 2021 ESG REPORT	3Contents 	ESG at Citi 	Sustainable Finance 	SustainableProgress 	Equitable & Resilient Communities 	Talent & DEI 	Risk Management & Responsible Business 	AppendicesCITI 2021 ESG REPORT	3Contents 	ESG at Citi 	Sustainable Finance 	SustainableProgress 	Equitable & Resilient Communities 	Talent & DEI 	Risk Management & Responsible Business 	Appendices	Contents 	ESG at Citi 	Sustainable Finance 	SustainableProgress 	Equitable & Resilient Communities 	Talent & DEI 	Risk Management & Responsible Business 	Appendices	CITI 2021 ESG REPORT	3CITI 2021 ESG REPORT	3Contents 	ESG at Citi 	Sustainable Finance 	SustainableProgress 	Equitable & Resilient Communities 	Talent & DEI 	Risk Management & Responsible Business 	Appendices	CITI 2021 ESG REPORT	3CITI 2021 ESG REPORT	3CITI 2021 ESG REPORT	3CITI 2021 ESG REPORT	3Contents 	ESG at Citi 	Sustainable Finance 	SustainableProgress 	Equitable & Resilient Communities 	Talent & DEI 	Risk Management & Responsible Business 	AppendicesCITI 2021 ESG REPORT	3CITI 2021 ESG REPORT	3Contents 	ESG at Citi 	Sustainable Finance 	SustainableProgress 	Equitable & Resilient Communities 	Talent & DEI 	Risk Management & Responsible Business 	AppendicesCITI 2021 ESG REPORT	3Contents 	ESG at Citi 	Sustainable Finance 	SustainableProgress 	Equitable & Resilient Communities 	Talent & DEI 	Risk Management & Responsible Business 	AppendicesContents 	ESG at Citi 	Sustainable Finance 	SustainableProgress 	Equitable & Resilient Communities 	Talent & DEI 	Risk Management & Responsible Business 	AppendicesCITI 2021 ESG REPORT	3CITI 2021 ESG REPORT	3Contents 	ESG at Citi 	Sustainable Finance 	SustainableProgress 	Equitable & Resilient Communities 	Talent & DEI 	Risk Management & Responsible Business 	AppendicesCITI 2021 ESG REPORT	3Contents 	ESG at Citi 	Sustainable Finance 	Sustainable Progress 	Equitable&ResilientCommunities 	Talent & DEI 	Risk Management & Responsible Business 	AppendicesCITI 2021 ESG REPORT	3CITI 2021 ESG REPORT	3CITI 2021 ESG REPORT	3CITI 2021 ESG REPORT	3CITI 2021 ESG REPORT	3CITI 2021 ESG REPORT	3Contents 	ESG at Citi 	Sustainable Finance 	Sustainable Progress 	Equitable & Resilient Communities 	Talent&DEI 	Risk Management & Responsible Business 	AppendicesCITI 2021 ESG REPORT	3CITI 2021 ESG REPORT	3Contents 	ESG at Citi 	Sustainable Finance 	Risk Management & Responsible Business 	AppendicesCITI 2021 ESG REPORT	3Contents 	ESG at Citi 	Sustainable Finance 	Sustainable Progress 	Equitable & Resilient Communities 	Talent&DEI 	Risk Management & Responsible Business 	AppendicesContents 	ESG at Citi 	Sustainable Finance 	Sustainable Progress 	Equitable & Resilient Communities 	Talent&DEI 	Risk Management & Responsible Business 	AppendicesCITI 2021 ESG REPORT	3CITI 2021 ESG REPORT	3Contents 	ESG at Citi 	Sustainable Finance 	Sustainable Progress 	Equitable & Resilient Communities 	Talent&DEI 	Risk Management & Responsible Business 	AppendicesCITI 2021 ESG REPORT	3CITI 2021 ESG REPORT	3CITI 2021 ESG REPORT	3CITI 2021 ESG REPORT	3Contents 	ESG at Citi 	Sustainable Finance 	Sustainable Progress 	Equitable & Resilient Communities 	Talent & DEI 	RiskManagement&ResponsibleBusiness 	AppendicesCITI 2021 ESG REPORT	3CITI 2021 ESG REPORT	3Contents 	ESG at Citi 	AppendicesCITI 2021 ESG REPORT	3Contents 	ESG at Citi 	Sustainable Finance 	Sustainable Progress 	Equitable & Resilient Communities 	Talent & DEI 	RiskManagement&ResponsibleBusiness 	AppendicesContents 	ESG at Citi 	Sustainable Finance 	Sustainable Progress 	Equitable & Resilient Communities 	Talent & DEI 	RiskManagement&ResponsibleBusiness 	AppendicesCITI 2021 ESG REPORT	3CITI 2021 ESG REPORT	3Contents 	ESG at Citi 	Sustainable Finance 	Sustainable Progress 	Equitable & Resilient Communities 	Talent & DEI 	RiskManagement&ResponsibleBusiness 	AppendicesCITI 2021 ESG REPORT	3Contents 	ESG at Citi 	Sustainable Finance 	Sustainable Progress 	Equitable & Resilient Communities 	Talent & DEI 	RiskManagement&ResponsibleBusiness 	AppendicesContents 	ESG at Citi 	Sustainable Finance 	Sustainable Progress 	Equitable & Resilient Communities 	Talent & DEI 	RiskManagement&ResponsibleBusiness 	AppendicesCITI 2021 ESG REPORT	3CITI 2021 ESG REPORT	3Contents 	ESG at Citi 	Sustainable Finance 	Sustainable Progress 	Equitable & Resilient Communities 	Talent & DEI 	RiskManagement&ResponsibleBusiness 	AppendicesCITI 2021 ESG REPORT	3Contents 	ESG at Citi 	Sustainable Finance 	Sustainable Progress 	Equitable & Resilient Communities 	Talent & DEI 	RiskManagement&ResponsibleBusiness 	AppendicesContents 	ESG at Citi 	Sustainable Finance 	Sustainable Progress 	Equitable & Resilient Communities 	Talent & DEI 	RiskManagement&ResponsibleBusiness 	Appendices	CITI 2021 ESG REPORT	3CITI 2021 ESG REPORT	3CITI 2021 ESG REPORT	3Contents 	ESG at Citi 	Sustainable Finance 	Sustainable Progress 	Equitable & Resilient Communities 	Talent & DEI 	RiskManagement&ResponsibleBusiness 	Appendices		CITI 2021 ESG REPORT	119CITI 2021 ESG REPORT	3		CITI 2021 ESG REPORT	119Contents 	ESG at Citi 	Sustainable Finance 	Sustainable Progress 	Equitable & Resilient Communities 	Talent & DEI 	RiskManagement&ResponsibleBusiness 	Appendices			CITI 2021 ESG REPORT	119CITI 2021 ESG REPORT	3			CITI 2021 ESG REPORT	119Contents 	ESG at Citi 	Sustainable Finance 	Sustainable Progress 	Equitable & Resilient Communities 	Talent & DEI 	RiskManagement&ResponsibleBusiness 	AppendicesContents 	ESG at Citi 	Sustainable Finance 	Sustainable Progress 	Equitable & Resilient Communities 	Talent & DEI 	RiskManagement&ResponsibleBusiness 	AppendicesCITI 2021 ESG REPORT	3CITI 2021 ESG REPORT	3Contents 	ESG at Citi 	Sustainable Finance 	Sustainable Progress 	Equitable & Resilient Communities 	Talent & DEI 	RiskManagement&ResponsibleBusiness 	AppendicesCITI 2021 ESG REPORT	3Contents 	ESG at Citi 	Sustainable Finance 	Sustainable Progress 	Equitable & Resilient Communities 	Talent & DEI 	RiskManagement&ResponsibleBusiness 	Appendices		CITI 2021 ESG REPORT	3CITI 2021 ESG REPORT	3CITI 2021 ESG REPORT	3Contents 	ESG at Citi 	Sustainable Finance 	Sustainable Progress 	Equitable & Resilient Communities 	Talent & DEI 	RiskManagement&ResponsibleBusiness 	Appendices	Contents 	ESG at Citi 	Sustainable Finance 	Sustainable Progress 	Equitable & Resilient Communities 	Talent & DEI 	RiskManagement&ResponsibleBusiness 	Appendices	CITI 2021 ESG REPORT	3CITI 2021 ESG REPORT	3Contents 	ESG at Citi 	Sustainable Finance 	Sustainable Progress 	Equitable & Resilient Communities 	Talent & DEI 	RiskManagement&ResponsibleBusiness 	AppendicesCITI 2021 ESG REPORT	3Contents 	ESG at Citi 	Sustainable Finance 	Sustainable Progress 	Equitable & Resilient Communities 	Talent & DEI 	RiskManagement&ResponsibleBusiness 	Appendices	Contents 	ESG at Citi 	Sustainable Finance 	Sustainable Progress 	Equitable & Resilient Communities 	Talent & DEI 	RiskManagement&ResponsibleBusiness 	Appendices	CITI 2021 ESG REPORT	3CITI 2021 ESG REPORT	3Contents 	ESG at Citi 	Sustainable Finance 	Sustainable Progress 	Equitable & Resilient Communities 	Talent & DEI 	RiskManagement&ResponsibleBusiness 	AppendicesCITI 2021 ESG REPORT	3	Contents 	ESG at Citi 	Sustainable Finance 	Sustainable Progress 	Equitable & Resilient Communities 	Talent & DEI 	Risk Management & Responsible Business 	Appendices	Contents 	ESG at Citi 	Sustainable Finance 	Sustainable Progress 	Equitable & Resilient Communities 	Talent & DEI 	Risk Management & Responsible Business 	AppendicesCITI 2021 ESG REPORT	3CITI 2021 ESG REPORT	3CITI 2021 ESG REPORT	3Contents 	ESG at Citi 	Sustainable Finance 	Sustainable Progress 	Equitable & Resilient Communities 	Talent & DEI 	Risk Management & Responsible Business 	AppendicesAssuranceContents 	ESG at Citi 	Sustainable Finance 	Sustainable Progress 	Equitable & Resilient Communities 	Talent & DEI 	Risk Management & Responsible Business 	AppendicesAssurance  CITI 2021 ESG REPORT	178  CITI 2021 ESG REPORT	178Contents 	ESG at Citi 	Sustainable Finance 	Sustainable Progress 	Equitable & Resilient Communities 	Talent & DEI 	Risk Management & Responsible Business 	AppendicesAssuranceCITI 2021 ESG REPORT	3CITI 2021 ESG REPORT	3CITI 2021 ESG REPORT	3CITI 2021 ESG REPORT	3