 A landlord may require a tenant to provide indemnity against damages should anyone get injured on the premises.
 This would typically include the example mentioned earlier where a contractor uses a subcontractor to perform certain services.
 Here, the owner of the equipment may require the lessee to provide indemnity against damages as a result of using the equipment under the equipment lease .
 Here, the landowner may require the rights holder for indemnification against any damages suffered on the property or as a result of the use of the easement.
 These are the yet-to-be-paid bills to the company’s vendors. Generally, accounts payable are the largest current liability for most businesses.
 interest expense that has already been incurred but has not been paid. Interest payable should not be confused with interest expense, which is the expense on an income statement. 
 the income tax amount owed by a company to the government. The tax amount owed must generally be payable within one year. Otherwise, the tax owed would be classified as a long-term liability.
 effectively, a type of short-term loan provided by a bank when a payment is processed with insufficient funds available in the bank account
 expenses that have been incurred but no supporting documentation (e.g., invoice) has been received or issued to the company by the vendor
 (also called unearned revenue). Generated when a company receives early payment for goods and/or services that have not been delivered or completed yet.
 loans or other borrowings with a maturity of one year or less
 The amount of outstanding bonds with a maturity of over one year issued by a company. On a balance sheet, the bonds payable account indicates the value of the company’s outstanding bonds.
 The amount of promissory notes with a maturity of over one year issued by a company. Similar to bonds payable, the notes payable account on a balance sheet indicates the value of the promissory notes.
 These arise from the difference between the amount of tax recognized on the income statement and the actual tax amount due to be paid to the appropriate tax authorities. As a liability, it essentially means that the company “underpays” the taxes in the current period and will “overpay” the taxes at some point in the future.
 If a company takes out a mortgage or a long-term debt, it records the value of the borrowed principal amount as a non-current liability on the balance sheet.
 Leases are recognized as a liability when a company enters into a long-term rental agreement for property or equipment. The lease amount is the present value of the lessee’s obligation.
 The total amount of accrued income employees have earned but not yet received. Since most companies pay their employees every two weeks, this liability changes often.
 Companies, just like individuals, often use credit to purchase goods and services to finance over short time periods. This represents the interest on those short-term credit purchases to be paid.
 For companies that have issued stock to investors and pay a dividend, this represents the amount owed to shareholders after the dividend was declared. This period is around two weeks, so this liability usually pops up four times per year, until the dividend is paid.
 This is a company's liability to deliver goods and/or services at a future date after being paid in advance. This amount will be reduced in the future with an offsetting entry once the product or service is delivered.
 This is a unique liability that most people glance over but should scrutinize more closely. Companies are required to account for the financial impact of an operation, division, or entity that is currently being held for sale or has been recently sold. This also includes the financial impact of a product line that is or has recently been shut down.
 Some liabilities are not as exact as AP and have to be estimated. It’s the estimated amount of time and money that may be spent repairing products upon the agreement of a warranty. This is a common liability in the automotive industry, as most cars have long-term warranties that can be costly.
 A contingent liability is a liability that may occur depending on the outcome of an uncertain future event.
 This is a broad category that may be recorded as current or non-current depending on the specifics of the transactions. These credits are basically revenue collected before it is recorded as earned on the income statement. It may include customer advances, deferred revenue, or a transaction where credits are owed but not yet considered revenue. Once the revenue is no longer deferred, this item is reduced by the amount earned and becomes part of the company's revenue stream.
 These are benefits an employee or family members may receive upon his/her retirement, which are carried as a long-term liability as it accrues. In the AT&T example, this constitutes one-half of the total non-current total second only to long-term debt. With rapidly rising health care and deferred compensation, this liability is not to be overlooked.