you’re one page awayfrom the no-holds-barred story                     of one year in the life of a company.It’s the story ofbig battles,stinging defeats&gritty comebacks.unexpected alliances, daring forays&game-changingdiscoveries.In many ways,it’s a story about the future, as well as the recent past,and about all business today.which means it’s about e-business.and one in particular.annual report 2000
the story of ibm is really many stories.    We’re opening up new markets and extending our lead in others. We’re fighting back in businesses we pioneered and changing ourselves in some fundamental ways. Last year, we absorbed our share of hits, too. But we won more than we lost. And closed the year on a high note.    All the while, we’ve kept working, inventing and partnering to write the next chapter of the story we started five years ago. The story of e-business.    So, while this year’s report is not a simple narrative, it does yield one singular theme. It’s ultimately the story of hundreds of thousands of people tackling scores of the toughest business and technological challenges over 12 intensely challenging months.It’s one story we’re proud to tell.
table of contents chapter 1reports of our demiseFeisty comebacks in servers, storage and databases chapter 2the leader’s dilemmaManaging success, growth and expansion in services, software and semiconductors chapter 3the plot thickensChanging the game through Linux and e-sourcing chapter 4into the wildBold forays in technological and business innovationchapter 5coming homeIBM as an e-businessdear fellow investor,Last year at this time, I said 2000 looked to be a year of great promise for IBM—as well as a year of great uncertainty. I said that, based on the way things were playing out in our
industry—and in business in general—and because IBM, more perhaps than any other company in information technology, was vulnerable to customer wariness over “Y2K problems.”  It turned out that last year was, in a word, unique. As you may remember, our company entered the year facing a severe drop-off in customer demand because of Y2K. Many of our largest customers had frozen big-ticket technology purchases heading into the new millennium, and that persisted until almost the middle of 2000.  Then, in a flip-flop the likes of which I have never seen, demand went through the roof. Within a 30-day period last summer, orders for some of our products tripled. We couldn’t build fast enough to fill orders and, to make matters worse, we had shortages of some key components. Thanks to the determined, round-the-clock work of literally hundreds of thousands of IBMers, we got supply and demand into better balance in the final quarter of the year, and we finished strong. But, I don’t need to describe to you the frustration of not being able to satisfy customer demand, particularly in view of the drought we had endured. I am determined that’s not going to happen again.  But, add it all up—the highs, lows and sideways moves of 2000—and IBM had a solid year. For the sixth straight year we reported record revenue— $88.4 billion. Our earnings rose to $8.1 billion, a 16 percent increase, resulting in another record in earnings per diluted common share. After making substantial investments—$5.6 billion in research and development, $5.6 billion in capital expenditures and more than $500 million in strategic acquisitions that strengthened our business portfolio—we had enough cash to increase our dividend to shareholders and to buy back $6.7 billion of common shares.  The most disappointing note was that our yearto-year stock price went down for the first time since I joined the company—to $85 from $108, a decline of 21 percent. Of course, just about all information technology stocks dropped, in what might be called a NASDAQ crash, and IBM fared better than most. Also, over the past eight years IBM’s share price has increased nearly 800 percent. Even so, we can do better.  What about 2001? Can the recent trend continue? Whether or not there is a softening of the U.S. economy, IBM should be in reasonably good
 page no. three
competitive shape. Of course, we all hope such a downturn doesn’t occur. But if it does, the ebbing tide may not beach all boats. For one thing, services offerings like outsourcing and hosting are costsaving propositions for our customers. Services, in this regard, is a countercyclical business. And in a tightening economic environment, customers are going to invest in projects that deliver rock-solid, tangible, near-term payoffs, not in speculative, exploratory schemes. As a result, this may be a prime opportunity for IBM to improve its market position.THE DOT-COM CRASH: WHAT IT MEANSThat’s not the way things seemed a year ago. Back then, it looked as though Internet start-ups were taking over and traditional bricks-and-mortar enterprises had better jump with both feet into “e-tailing” or get steamrolled.   Well, as we all know today, it didn’t happen. The crash brought out the usual pundits and weathervanes—the same ones who a year earlier had declared that dot-coms were taking over the world. Only now they were saying, “This e-business was mostly hype anyway. E-nough!” Since, in many ways, IBM gave birth to all things “e” five years ago, I’d like to offer a perspective.  The collapse of the dot-coms was not a failure of e-business. It was the failure of an overly narrow approach to e-business. For all the proclamations we have been hearing about a “new economy,” the problem with most dot-coms was that their business model—win customers through lower prices— wasn’t anything new, not to mention transformative.   IBM has always said that e-business involves more than transforming one part of a company, such as selling directly over the Net. We said the real action, the real work—and the ultimate payoff— involved the transformation and the integration of the entire enterprise, from the customer all the way through the supply chain. Things have played out pretty much that way—and that may have been a bucket of cold water for some. For IBM, it was a tough but ultimately heartening reaffirmation of the strategic direction we set in place several years ago. So, if there is a lesson to be extracted from the dot-com crash, it may be this: There is no short-cut to e-business. And if 2000 comes to be seen as a watershed (and I think it will), that will be because this was the year the world’s established enterprises awoke to the true possibilities of e-business. I believe a broad consensus has emerged that e-business is just…business, real business. And real business is serious work.THE GAME TODAYOne word you heard a lot last year was “buzz.” It’s what the cooler members of our industry were supposed to create to get all their constituencies excited about what they were doing. Unfortunately for them, this isn’t a very buzz-y period for our industry. In fact, it’s downright boring, but oh so important for the future.   Customers tell us the battleground has shifted to computing infrastructure. Of course, IBM is no longer alone in saying that the PC era is over, nor in pointing to the explosion in personal access devices (as well as an even wider array of things with embedded intelligence, such as appliances and cars). Most of our competitors today are saying that enterprise servers, storage and software are key, and that they must be bulletproof, robust, scalable, never-go-down. But I’m not sure we all agree on what “infrastructure” actually means.   Businesses are coming to see that their computing infrastructure cannot be designed or built around any one product—or even any particular type of technology, whether databases, or servers, or storage. None of those tails can wag this entire dog. For one thing, the pieces all have to work with one another. For another, in order to function in the real world—where there is a hodgepodge of existing systems within any company and among its customers, suppliers and trading partners—they have to take a broad view of the full spectrum of infrastructure elements.   The point is, no company’s systems are an island. They’re part of a new, emerging, global infrastructure that is made possible by the emergence of the Internet, and that no one enterprise can—or wants to—own. It’s collectively owned, accessed and relied upon by every business, government, school, hospital and neighborhood.
page no. five
In that respect, computing infrastructure is rapidly becoming like all the other kinds of infrastructure we take for granted in the world—the telephone system, the highways, the power grid.  This has been a long time coming. The main obstacle has been a lack of standards in our industry. Simply put, without standards, computing systems cannot work with each other. And if your computer can’t work with all the other computers in the world, then you’re limited in how you can buy and sell, trade stock, book a vacation, receive health care and cast a vote over the Net. And in the same way, your company is limited in how it can work with its trading partners, its suppliers, its customers—and you.   The Internet, of course, began to change all that by bringing common standards to network connectivity. Now, the astounding adoption of the Linux operating system—and the broader Open Source movement of which it is a part—are pushing standards over the top (which is why IBM has made such a huge commitment to Linux). Standards are a reality of our industry today. There’s no going back. This is wonderful for customers and users of computing. But for many technology companies, it is an earthquake. No longer will the battle be won or lost over computing technology controlled by one company. Success going forward will require open platforms, and tech companies that rely on closed, proprietary technologies will dry up. In fact, some of the players riding high today may never, without major strategic adjustments, see their current growth rates again.   Now, some people assert that standardsbased computing will commoditize informationtechnology. And certainly, many are asking: Where will the value be? The profits? Who will set the agenda? What will matter most to customers?  We ask ourselves these questions all the time. I think we can now see clearly that competitive advantage in the future will rest essentially on three things: technological innovation, the ability to help customers integrate technology with their business, and the capability to make information technology easy to acquire and manage.   Each of these capacities takes a long time to build, and the barriers to entry are daunting. These are not things you can simply buy your way into. Step back from the array of all the things IBM is and does today, and what you’ll see is a company strengthening its position in these three fundamental areas.1. Technology Innovation. Make no mistake. A world of standard computing technology increases, not decreases, the value and competitive advantage of innovation. And that requires real science. Not just software developers, but also quantum physicists. Not just storage specialists, but computational biologists. Not just people who move data, but people who move atoms—one at a time. We have all of that.page no. six  This ability to invent is IBM’s ace in the hole. The scope and impact of what our researchers have invented in just the past eight years—during which they have continually set record after record in patents—is remarkable. We are in the midst of a Golden Age at IBM Research. Equally important is how rapidly we’ve moved those innovations into the marketplace. From silicon germanium to copper chips, from silicon-on-insulator to WebSphere,from self-managing servers to microdrives—IBM’s technology business has become a multibilliondollar juggernaut.  That’s important. If the first age of e-business was an age of supply—a seemingly endless abundance of Web sites, new businesses, new business models and capital—then the second age of e-business will be an age of demand. Before long, we’ll see Internet traffic grow a thousandfold, propelled by, among other things, an explosion in the number of client and embedded networked devices that will reach into the trillions. That’s a lot of bits and bytes that businesses are going to have to capture, manage, store, access, analyze and use. And no matter how much more efficient we make our current computing infrastructure, no matter how many more bright young people go into computer science, it won’t be enough. We’re going to need whole new levels of scientific and technological discovery, much of it aimed at creating self-managing e-business infrastructure. Who would you bet on to create and patent the lion’s share?2.Business Innovation. So, new technology is essential. But let me tell you, when I was a customer, I never turned to IBM because of a piece of technology; I took that for granted. Instead, I turned to IBM because they helped me apply all their amazing technology to my business. I valued IBM’s applied intelligence, its ability to understand my problems and help fix them.   This capability will be even more important as e-business moves into the realm of serious business transformation. All of the decisions that customersneed to make—technology decisions, product decisions and process decisions—derive from some much more basic, strategic choices. So the first thing a customer needs is a partner with a deep, experience-based understanding of their business, of business in general, of e-business in particular. Of course, a “solution” isn’t truly a solution unless your customer can implement it quickly and affordably. Business transformation doesn’t mean much if you can’t then enable applications and get the infrastructure in place. One of IBM’s key competitive advantages is our experience in actually building and integrating e-business systems and e-business infrastructure for our customers (and for ourselves).3. Managing Technology’s Cost and Complexity. And then there’s the question of how a company should acquire and manage information technology. This is not trivial, especially when you understand the vast, sophisticated computing infrastructure that will be required to support real e-business.   There’s traditional purchase, of course. And outsourcing—where a partner like IBM Global Services takes on the operation of a customer’s existing I/T systems and staff. IBM is already the world leader in strategic outsourcing, including more than 50 deals signed in 2000 that were valued at more than $100 million each. But now, we have bigger ideas about how to help our customers.  page no. seven  How about moving infrastructure out of the corporate data center, and onto the Net? Don’t own it. Rent it as a service, on an as-needed, as-used basis. This is what we call “e-sourcing,” and it will vastly increase companies’ access to computing power, expertise and innovation. IBM is already one of the world’s largest hosting companies, with revenue that doubled in 2000. And we are working rapidly with telecom partners to build new IBM e-business hosting centers worldwide.  Finally, often overlooked in IBM’s portfolio is a capability our customers and business partners value highly, because it makes e-business real and financially manageable. IBM Global Financing is the world’s largest provider of I/T financing— a $4 billion business managing over $40 billion in assets.UNDER THE HOODWhen you look at these industry trends, at our strategies and at what’s happening “under the hood” within IBM, not only did our company have a good year in 2000, but prospects for 2001 are even better.  As I’ve reported here, not only is the marketplace ready for IBM, but we’re ready for it. A whole lot of hard, disciplined work turning our strategic plans into reality is now coming to fruition. And in helping our customers build their computing infrastructure, we have the advantage of having a strong position in all its major parts—middleware, enterprise servers, component technology and enterprise storage. In every one of those fields, we’ve made major gains. • In software, value continues to shift from the operating system to middleware, which links all kinds of servers and all the applications with every kind of client device. A few years ago, IBM set out to build a software business focused on middleware. It wasn’t glamorous. We just quietly invested billions of dollars to create a set of open products that work with every industry-leading platform. And what’s happening? Explosive growth. Our DB2 database revenue was up more than 70 percent on UNIX and Windows NT platforms in 2000. MQ Series messaging software was up more than 60 percent. And WebSphere, our e-commerce middleware, tripled year over year. Industry analysts estimate that the middleware market—already $77 billion today—is growing at a 14 percent annual clip. • In servers, after years of investment and invention, we transformed our products from the inside out, integrating our offerings with common technologies, common chip architecture, a common development platform in Linux, interoperability with dozens of leading applications—and took them to market as the IBM eServer family.Customer reaction has been swift and enthusiastic.• After deciding a couple of years ago to exit the enterprise application software business, we have put into place a powerful set of partnerships. In 2000, we established strategic alliances with 50 leading independent software companies, most of whom had previously been going to market mainly with some of our top competitors. • In component technology, we are getting our innovations to market not just inside our own products, but inside the products of other hightech companies. At the same time, we made a key shift from increasingly commoditized, generalpurpose DRAM chips to high-end microprocessors for servers, chips for pervasive computing devices and chips for networking equipment. It’s taken us time to build up our technology portfolio, but now we have it, and demand is white-hot. In the market for pervasive device chips alone, our revenue increased 80 percent last year. Revenue from networking infrastructure chips grew 137 percent.• The list goes on. We reanimated our enterprise storage business with a product we call Shark; restructured our PC unit and returned it to profitability in the second half of the year; drove the growth of Linux inside and outside IBM; and staked out new ground in emerging markets, such as life sciences.• Finally, there’s services, which in many ways is our trump card. We provide consulting, implementation services, outsourcing and now e-sourcing, aimed at the heart of the hosting and service provider opportunity. After years of hard work, we’ve got the most capable services business in the world. In fact, IBM is now the largest business and technology consultancy. We have 50,000 consultants who billed more than $10 billion in revenue in 2000. We have
page no. eightfinancial highlights—International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companiesone-year performancePercent	Percent	Increase(dollars in millions except per share amounts)20001999IncreaseNormalizedFOR THE YEAR Revenue$«88,396$«87,5481%1%Net income$«««8,093$«««7,712*	5%	*16%Per share of common stock:Assuming dilution$«««««4.44$«««««4.12*	8%	*19%Basic$«««««4.58$«««««4.25*	8%	*19%Cash dividends paid on common stock$««««««909$««««««8596%6%Per share of common stockAT YEAR END$«««««0.51$«««««0.479%9%Total assets$«88,349$«87,4951%1%Total debt$«28,576$«28,3541%1%Stockholders’ equity$«20,624$«20,5111%1%* Includes a net benefit from the 1999 sale of the IBM Global Network and other 1999 actions.six-year performance6-Year(dollars in millions except per share amounts)20001994CAGR**FOR THE YEAR Revenue$«88,396$«64,0526%Net income$«««8,093$«««3,02118%Per share of common stock:Assuming dilution$«««««4.44$«««««1.2424%Basic$«««««4.58$«««««1.2624%Cash dividends paid on common stock$««««««909$««««««5858%Per share of common stockAT YEAR END$«««««0.51$«««««0.2513%Total assets$«88,349$«81,0911%Total debt$«28,576$«22,1184%Stockholders’ equity$«20,624$«23,413-2%** Compound Annual Growth Ratepage no. nine
created a network of Business Innovation Centers, offering customers everything from front-end Web design to the heavy lifting at the back end. And just as important, we have built a field force that includes thousands of experienced industry specialists—many of them former professionals in their respective domains, from manufacturing to consumer products, from health care to government. *    *    *When I look back on the past five years, I think that, for a lot of people, the “e” in e-business came to mean “easy” or “escape”—e-business represented a kind of magical way of avoiding everything traditionally associated with “business.” All the planning. All the process. All the relationship building. All the checks and cross-checks and safeguards. Boring stuff like accounting. Gut-wrenching stuff like accountability and responsible public policy. The magic “e” seemed to offer the prospect of leapfrogging right over all that, achieving wealth overnight— in a sprint, rather than a marathon.   Some of us, though, actually enjoy business. We enjoy the competition. Our adrenaline kicks in at the prospect of a long-distance race. We accept— we relish—the pragmatic, tactical, roll-up-yoursleeves-and-dive-in aspects of planning, and process creation, and management systems. It doesn’t feel boring. It feels like building something important and significant.  The soaring fantasies of the era we’re now leaving were, perhaps, inevitable—and, in their own way, inspiring. Big shifts in history usually begin with a romantic revolution. Whenever people set out for the unknown, they do so in a spirit of adventure. But, when they arrive there, they put down roots. They build something that lasts.  So arguably, the most striking thing about this moment in e-business’s short, eventful life is the people who are now at the front of the march. The era we’re now entering calls for a new breed of adventurer. The veterans have joined the crusade— with vigor. Indeed, we’ve never felt so energized. In the pages that follow, we hope to communicate our excitement about what we are doing.  For me personally, I experience this time with a mixture of satisfaction, confidence and hope. Satisfaction at IBM having stuck to its guns—and gotten things pretty much right. Confidence in our ability going forward to deliver on our promise, and to deliver on our customers’ needs. And hope about the genuinely transformative future that is opening up before all of us—businesses, schools, governments, entire societies.  And there’s something else, too. This is fun. I find myself relishing this work as never before. There’s simply nothing like working as hard as you can with an extraordinary group of people to hit your targets, to prove yourself against tough odds, to build something entirely new, even to change the world. For me, it’s the most satisfying feeling there is.   We’d better not blink. These next couple of years are going to go by in a flash.*    *    *I want to introduce two people to you who are very important to the future of IBM. • Sam Palmisano was named president, chief operating officer and a director of IBM in September. He has a stellar record of achievement in the 27 years he has worked at IBM, including stints as head of our services, PC and server businesses. His primary responsibility is making sure that we execute well and that all our business units work as one team. Our fourth quarter results are, in part, evidence of Sam’s expertise.• John Thompson, elected vice chairman and a director in September, is responsible for research, new business opportunities, new technology, new directions. While everyone’s focused on the ball, John is focused on the fences.Louis V. Gerstner, Jr.Chairman and Chief Executive Officer
page no. ten
and so our story begins

chapter 1reports of our demisein markets we once led (or should have)—high-end storage, unix servers and database software—we’re battling back and making up lost ground.page no.thirteen






chapter 2the leader’sdilemma our story continues with a victory and a lesson: that being top of the charts may beget its own kind of challenge, as when market demand races ahead of supply, or when success servesto dampen the competitive fire.If they were running self-standing enterprises, John Kelly, Doug Elix and Steve Mills would be Fortune 150 CEOs. They’re not. Instead, they run IBM’s technology, services and software businesses, respectively—businesses that generated more than 60 percent ofIBM’s revenue last year. They plan competitive strategy, lead vast workforces, make decisions about where to invest and when to divest—and stand accountable for their results. And in 2000, they all had to adjust on the fly to changing market conditions.twenty-onepage no.
In the early days of 2001,john kelly, doug elix and steve mills satdown to talk about the wild ride of the year past and the opportunities of the year ahead.lessons learnedKelly: For us, the big lesson of 2000 was that if you have leadership technology, “build it and they will come.” In the first quarter, I’m sitting near 70 percent utilization—which is death in my business— but we knew what was coming, and just kept building. In the third quarter, it popped. We thought we were in a highgrowth business; what we didn’t realize was we were in a hypergrowth business. Even that’s an understatement.Elix: Tell me about it. In services, we worked through a transition that spanned three quarters. We’d had great business in systems integration and even doing Y2K work, and then suddenly we had to transition all of those services completely to e-business-oriented services, hire thousands of people and retrain thousands of our own people. It wasn’t until the fourth quarter that we saw the momentum return to the business.Kelly: But in any one of our cases, we’ve got to continue to have confidence that the business is going to grow.
Mills: The thing I like about what you’ve been doing in the OEM business is getting more utilization, more customers, across more industry segments, and that gives you some cushion against the ups and downs. It’s the single-customer phenomenon that can kill you.Kelly: Right. Customers and segments. But we came from a background of doing too many things. And we’ve finally focused on the top segments and key customers. The trick now is to keep the team focused, because there’s always the temptation to go for the high-volume opportunity in lower-margin products. We’ve made the decision that’s not our game.Mills: I think this was a year that taught many people that no tree is going to grow straight to heaven. In software, we’d had a number of very good years, and a lot of growth, and in retrospect, I don’t think the reasons for that success were as well understood as they have become this year.making the callMills: You can’t study things to death. There are development opportunities where you don’t have a lot of time to do long, complicated business cases. You have to incubate a number of them, pilot them and see whether they’re successful. The ones that aren’t, you’ve got to be prepared to terminate quickly and efficiently, and the ones that do take off, you nurture them and grow them.Kelly: A vendor in Japan built a packaging plant to support our growth, on a handshake. We shook hands, and they literally started digging the hole in August. By the end of the year, the plant was online. Elix: In almost every one of our big growth businesses, we’ve started based as much on management judgment as on business cases. I mean, conversion to the customer relationship management services, to e-procurement, to supply chain: we didn’t spend a lot of time doing complicated business cases to get those off the ground.   Having said that, we do still have to make the case for capital investment. To build the Web hosting business required a tremendous commitment of capital—$4 billion so far. And we also have huge investments in bringing people on board to meet the increasing demand in the professional services business. We’re hiring more than 19,000 people a year. That’s a tremendous investment, as well, which we now do almost as a matter of course.Kelly: For me, well, there aren’t a lot of companies in the semiconductor business prepared to put $5 billion on the table for big fabricators. We can. We did. Somebody asked me what you feel like when the company says, “Okay, here’s $5 billion. Don’t let us down!”Mills: And I bet you said, “I didn’t blink an eye!”Kelly: Actually, I said I felt relieved, becauseI’d already started the project. In fact, I hadLou Gerstner up in Fishkill a few weeks after I got the approvals. We’re driving in, and a lot of progress is already visible. The cranes were there, and there must have been several hundred construction workers at the site. And Lou looked at me and he said, “John, you started this before I approved it.” So, back to the question: The day I got the funding, I was relieved.the advantage of scaleKelly: There are challenges built into being one company with a portfolio of businesses, as opposed to being a pure play, self-standing, single-minded operation. The challenges are dwarfed by the advantages, but they’re still there to be managed.    One of them is this balance you have to strike: Make sure you capitalize on the assets of the rest of the company, be an asset yourself, and balance that with the focus you need to succeed within your market segment.Elix: Exactly. We’re the biggest, most capable services organization in the world, but we can’t and won’t go in front of a customer without the right alignment across the corporation. When we start to put together a solution, being hardwired to colleagues who have great customer relationships at one end and who are actually building the products and technologies at the other end is a trump card we play again and again and again.compete? cooperate? yes.Kelly: A lot of my best customers are some of IBM’s biggest competitors in the server and box business, and no one has ever constrained me from selling our great technology to them. So I just keep driving.Mills: Yeah, us too. It’s a diverse world. Wemanaging the futureMills: Thinking customers today understand that you can’t implement a transformed e-business enterprise unless you get the infrastructure underneath it running. They also know they need a partner that can look across all these processes and see how to put them together. Infrastructure is going to be a winning play for us this year. Elix: For us, outsourcing is back strong. We cracked the market in Asia—in a way, we created the market in Asia. Then there’s e-sourcing (see page 33), and the business transformation that underpins all of the infrastructure and hardware and software changes. That holds tremendous opportunities for growth.Kelly: We’ve planted ourselves in an incredibly fast-growing segment. So whether it’s chips for servers, chips for infrastructure for the Internet, or chips for pervasive devices, we’re parked in the sweet spot. And we have a broad spectrum of customers in each segment. We’re ready to go wherever this thing is going to go.have to coexist with, support and sell to companies that other parts of the product or services organization compete with. But we certainly jump on opportunities where we can leverage another part of IBM, because we know software can pull hardware and services into a sale.Elix: Right. We made this decision many years ago. We are a multifaceted company that is in many product areas, as well as many service areas. Kelly: I mean, some parts of the business have tough challenges in this—some of the product houses. But there are lots of areas where it’s positive synergy. One of my biggest customers is somebody that Doug calls on, so the better Doug does, the more components I sell.   You can’t live through a year like 2000 and not learn a lot. One of the advantages that the three of us have had is that we grew up in our businesses. We have a gut instinct for it, so we can make decisions—even big ones—faster.market opportunity	IDC projects spending on I/T to grow 11 percent over the nextservices	five years, with the fastest growthcoming in services, microelectronics                 and software—the areas on which IBM has been focusing. $470billion marketfor information technology services14913897 98 99 00employees at ibm global servicesEstimates show the market for I/T services will grow 14 percent annually to $470 billion by 2003.In 2000, IBM Global Services hired more than 19,000 people. It invested $400 million in professional development and knowledge tools, and$50 million in e-business training.market opportunity$69billion marketfor non-pc chipsAnalysts estimate a $69 billion market for chips used in networking infrastructure, pervasive computing devices and enterprise information technology—three of the fastest growing segments of this industry.investments$5billioninvestedIBM is investing $5 billion over the next four years to expand chip manufacturing and packagingcapacity. This includes a $2.5 billion facility in East Fishkill, N.Y.—the first to integrate IBM’s leading chip-making technologies into larger, 300mm wafers.semiconductors(in thousands)
market opportunitysoftware$77billionopportunity for middlewareAnalysts estimate that today’s $77 billion market for middleware is growing 14percent annually. investments50major alliancesIBM forged 50 strategic alliances with business software specialists to increase sales of hardware, services, database software and other middleware. IBM is investing heavily in WebSphere—including a $1 billion investment in 2000 for marketing, partner development and sales programs.
performance	58	85revenue from e-business services —which include e-commerce consulting, e-business enablement and e-hosting services—grew more than 70 percent in 2000.ibm signed $10 billion in outsourcing contracts in the Asia Pacific region in 2000—more than twice the value of contracts signed there in 1999. 	96	97	98	99	0096	97	98	99	00	96	97	98	99	00services revenue($ in billions) outsourcingTotal number of signed strategic outsourcing contracts valued at more than $100 millionbacklog($ in billions) Backlog represents the total amount of revenue remaining on signed contractsperformance223revenue from logic chips 28products where functions andgrew 50 percent in 2000. ASICs, the most prevalent form of custom logic chip, are used in all types of electronicperformance requirementscan’t be met by off-the-shelf processors. In 1999, IBMmicroelectronicsbecame the number-one supoem revenueplier of this leadership in ASICs, and continued2000. growth in 2000 96 97 98 99 00number of new custom microchip designs for customersperformancedistributedsoftware revenue($ in billions)db2 distributed software revenue growth(year over year)software, including most of the world’s top commercial banks, telecommunications, health care andWall Street brokerage companies. 64% 221%websphere revenue growth in 2000 on unix and windows ntNearly 35,000 customers are using IBM WebSphere as e-infrastructure	98	99	00

chapter 3the plotthickenswhole new fronts open that promise to dwarf today’s market battles. introducing linux and e-sourcing. victory will go to the first one with the resources, vision and commitment to seize the moment.page no.twenty-nineWhy i believe Linux will fundamentally change the information technology industry.an opinionbyirving wladawsky-berger, Vice President, Technology and Strategy, IBM Server GroupIf Linux were just another operating system, we wouldn’t be all that high on it. But that’s what’s so interesting. Linux is an operating system, but it’s also radically different from anything that has come before it. It changes the way software is created and delivered.
Linux is like the Internet itself—it’s unowned, and unownable. Anyone can propose software changes, as long as those changes are returned to a loose-knit network of developers known as the Open Source community. It’s a highly selective, disciplined process that serves two purposes: It throws technical innovation into perpetual fast-forward; and it guarantees the world that Linux will always remain beyond the control of any single vendor.  In my mind, then, Linux is a phenomenon that holds the potential to change the game along two important dimensions.1. It fulfills a big promise: all hardware, software and applications working together. Linux is a wonderful thing because it is the first operating system to run on any hardware platform. That means it can do for business applications what the Internet did for networking and communications—deliver on the promise of truly open, interoperable, anyto-any computing.   In a world where a billion people using a trillion devices are all interconnected, can you imagine that software and hardware that hasn’t even been invented yet will have to coexist? Of course! Linux will make that possible, and that’s one reason it’s going to grow a lot faster than any other operating system over the next several years.  It’s interesting to me that some people are surprised that IBM is embracing Linux, while other large technology companies are trying to act as though Linux weren’t happening. This shouldn’t be a surprise. Linux is bringing the game back into our zone, precisely because we saw the world moving to open standards and fundamentally reconfigured our products, our strategy and our culture toward open systems, common standards and collaborative business practices. 2. It alters the way our industry delivers value toits customers (which is very good news for IBM). A lot of people who have played by one set of rules in this industry are going to find out they’re now playing a different game. The widespread adoption of Linux is going to neutralize any vendor’s ability to exercise control— over customers or software developers—based on that vendor’s proprietary operating system. When applications are no longer lashed to a specific operating platform, control and choice shift away from the technology company, and into the hands of customers. This makes possible an equally seismic shift in the way value is delivered—through services, through middleware, through servers.  So, we’re going to invest $1 billion in Linux, and we’ve dedicated 1,500 programmers to enable every IBM hardware and software product for Linux. Our strategy is to accelerate its adoption as a platform that can support heavy-duty, enterprise workloads—such as those already in production with customers like weather.com, Shell International Exploration and Production in the Netherlands, and Telia, Scandinavia’s largest telecommunications company.page no. thirty  We think that, at the end of the day, the operating system that provides the most flexibility to customers is the one that is going to end up winning. We’re voting with our customers on this one. We’re betting a big part of IBM’s future on Linux.ibm is afounding memberand contributor to the open source development lab. over the next three years, ibm will invest more than$300million to developlinux consulting, implementation and support services.ibm is investing$4billionover the next 3 years to build out its e-business hosting infrastructure. with230 data centersworldwide, ibm is working with partners such as at&t, qwest, telecom italia and ntt to open new ibm e-business hosting centers around the world in 2001.Why i believe e-sourcing will fundamentally change the information technology industry.an opinionbyginni rometty, General Manager, Strategy and Marketing, IBM Global ServicesThe initial idea of outsourcing is simple enough. An enterprise decides to turn over its information technology department—both equipment and staff—to an I/T partner. The physical assets switch owners, and the people running the systems switch ID badges. The logic is compelling: an improved balance sheet; relief from the headaches of technology ownership and maintenance; and much greater flexibility in meeting the infrastructure demands of doing real e-business.  Now, take that idea and surround it with the networked world. Very soon, it won’t be necessary for an enterprise physically to own, install, manage—or even house—any aspect of a traditional computing environment. The processing, the storage, the applications, the systems management, the security, the load balancing—all of it can be provided over the Internet as a service. Customers don’t have to own it. They can rent it, and pay as they need it, as they use it.  This is the trend we call “e-sourcing.” At one level, this extends the benefits of outsourcing. It allows enterprises to concentrate even more on their essential business priorities. But that’s only the beginning. Because, by giving up ownership, a company is vastly increasing its access to computing power, and expertise, and innovation.  We see the beginnings of this in Web hosting. By 2003, Web hosting is expected to be a $34 billion industry. Yet hosting is a very primitive version of the sophisticated computing services that customers will be able to rent in the future. ibm’s e-business  For IBM and the rest of our industry, this has profound implications. It changes who our customers are and what we will sell to them. Individual businesses may no longer be the primary decision makers when it comes to I/T purchases. Instead, those decisions may eventually be aggregated to a small number of mammoth computing “service providers,” like telecommunications companies and today’s hosting companies.  We intend to provide the infrastructure technologies that all of these service providers will require. And we’ll provide many of these services ourselves. We’re already one of the world’s largest hosting businesses, and we’re investing $4 billion to build out this capability.   E-sourcing will enable enterprises of all kinds—both in the private and public sectors—to tap into the full power of the Net. But in the end, the greatest benefit of e-sourcing will be in the freedom it unlocks. Sure, it will create enormous efficiencies. But the game-changing impact will be freeing up all companies—whether just starting out or well established—to focus on their core competencies, and to experiment and be more creative, with minimal commitment and risk. To help our customers explore their most exciting possibilities—that’s why IBM is committed to e-sourcing.
hosting revenuedoubled in 2000.

chapter 4i n t o t h e wild        on the horizon, new worlds shimmer in the morning light. who will get there first and develop their potential? at night, we dream of new technologies. at daybreak,we conceive new business models.page no.thirty-five




chapter 5coming homehow the world’s largest proponent     of e-business is transforming its processes and culture to become the world’s largest e-business.and so it begins.When does a business become an e-business? Until recently, the answer seemed to be: when you can buy something over its Web site. Today, we know better. It’s when you work with your customers, take and fulfill orders, provide services, procure billions of dollarsin goods and services, interlock with your suppliers—and support thousands of employees in scores of countries around the world to learn, collaborate and work in real time…on the Web. That’s how we’re helping our customers become e-businesses. And it all starts at home.forty-onepage no.




corporate initiativeswhat does it mean to lead?In our business, there’s technical leadership, thought leadership, financial leadership, marketplace leadership—all the things documented in this report. But any company that aspires to make a lasting contribution to the world must lead in ways that spread far beyond the confines of the marketplace, and winning, and profit.
It’s leadership by serving; leadership by caring; leadership in the community. It’s the kind of leadership we think about when we think about the world our work will leave for our children. At IBM, it’s how we apply our financial strength, resources and minds—more than 300,000 of the most talented people in any industry, and one of the most storied and aspirational of business enterprises—to change things, to make our planet a better place.  That’s true now more than ever. The arrival of a networked world brings with it the requirement for enterprises, governments and entire societies to establish new frameworks on virtually every vital public policy issue— not simply to foster the development of an important new platform for our economy, but to take responsibility for how its consequences will affect people and the planet.  Of special urgency with the rise of the Net are protections of the individual’s right to privacy. In 2000, we appointed IBM’s first chief privacy officer—a senior executive charged with guiding all our policies and practices in this area, and with working across the public and private sectors to advance workable protections of consumer and citizen privacy.  Our largest ongoing corporate commitment remains the $45 million grant program Reinventing Education—which has the potential to touch one in five children in U.S. public schools, as well as children in seven other countries, including Singapore, site of our latest grant.   Independent evaluations tell us that our Reinventing Education efforts are doing what we set out to do—drive higher student achievement. In West Virginia, high school students using standards-based math lessons, created via online technology developed through the grant partnership, scored significantly higher on statewide exams. And in Houston, first-graders using an innovative speech-recognition technology called Watchme!-Read scored significantly higher on comprehension and word recognition.   Underlying it all, IBM is perennially among the world’s most generous corporations. In 2000, we contributed more than $126 million to programs around the world that help people in need. Individual employees added another $49 million through matching grants and donations to nonprofit organizations and educational institutions. And of incalculable value was the more than 4 million hours of their time and expertise IBMers volunteered to a broad range of local causes.   IBM continued its longstanding commitment to environmental leadership last year, ensuring that its operations and products provide ever greater value to society while minimizing their potential impact on the environment. Our participation in voluntary initiatives to address global climate change and our latest offering to facilitate the reuse and recycling of PCs are just two examples of environmental efforts that contributed to the significant recognition the company received in 2000 for environmental excellence.  We do all this because we know that people have high expectations of leaders. High, but appropriate. We understand that if we aspire to lead in the creation of the networked world, we have to demonstrate the courage and wisdom to step up to the grand societal challenges it raises—both those as new as today’s headlines, and those as timeless as human society. Because that’s what it really means to lead. 
page no.forty-sevencompany missionAt IBM, we strive to lead in the creation, development and manufacture of the industry’s most advanced information technologies, including computer systems, software, networking systems, storage devices and microelectronics.We translate these advanced technologies into value for our customers through our professional solutions and services businesses worldwide.
financial reportinternational business machines corporationand Subsidiary CompaniesReport of Management	50Report of Independent Accountants	51Management Discussion	52Consolidated Financial StatementsEARNINGS 	64FINANCIAL POSITION	65STOCKHOLDERS’ EQUITY	66CASH FLOWS	68Notes to Consolidated Financial StatementsA SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES	69B ACCOUNTING CHANGES	71C COMMON STOCK SPLIT 	72D ACQUISITIONS/DIVESTITURES	72E INVENTORIES	74F FINANCING RECEIVABLES	74G PLANT, RENTAL MACHINES AND OTHER PROPERTY	74H INVESTMENTS AND SUNDRY ASSETS	74I SALE AND SECURITIZATION OF RECEIVABLES	74J BORROWINGS	75K FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS	76L OTHER LIABILITIES 	78M STOCKHOLDERS’ EQUITY ACTIVITY	79N CONTINGENCIES 	79O TAXES	80P ADVERTISING	81Q 1999 ACTIONS	81R RESEARCH, DEVELOPMENT AND ENGINEERING	82S EARNINGS PER SHARE OF COMMON STOCK 	83T RENTAL EXPENSE AND LEASE COMMITMENTS	83U STOCK-BASED COMPENSATION PLANS	84V RETIREMENT PLANS	85W NONPENSION POSTRETIREMENT BENEFITS	88X SEGMENT INFORMATION	89Five-Year Comparison of Selected Financial Data	94Selected Quarterly Data	94Stockholder Information	95Board of Directors and Senior Management	96page no.forty-ninereport of managementinternational business machines corporationand Subsidiary Companies 
Responsibility for the integrity and objectivity of the financial information presented in this Annual Report rests with IBM management. The accompanying financial statements have been prepared in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles, applying certain estimates and judgments as required.   IBM maintains an effective internal control structure. It consists, in part, of organizational arrangements with clearly defined lines of responsibility and delegation of authority, and comprehensive systems and control procedures. We believe this structure provides reasonable assurance that transactions are executed in accordance with management authorization, and that they are appropriately recorded in order to permit preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles and to adequately safeguard, verify and maintain accountability of assets. An important element of the control environment is an ongoing internal audit program.   To assure the effective administration of internal control, we carefully select and train our employees, develop and disseminate written policies and procedures, provide appropriate communication channels, and foster an environment conducive to the effective functioning of controls. We believe that it is essential for the company to conduct its business affairs in accordance with the highest ethical standards, as set forth in the IBM Business Conduct Guidelines. These guidelines, translated into numerous languages, are distributed to employees throughout the world, and reemphasized through internal programs to assure that they are understood and followed.   PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, independent accountants, is retained to examine IBM’s financial statements. Its accompanying report is based on an examination conducted in accordance with generally accepted auditing standards, including a review of the internal control structure and tests of accounting procedures and records.   The Audit Committee of the Board of Directors is composed solely of outside directors, and is responsible for recommending to the Board the independent accounting firm to be retained for the coming year, subject to stockholder approval. The Audit Committee meets periodically and privately with the independent accountants, with our internal auditors, as well as with IBM management, to review accounting, auditing, internal control structure and financial reporting matters.Louis V. Gerstner, Jr.	John R. JoyceChairman of the Board and	Senior Vice President and Chief Executive Officer	Chief Financial Officer 
page no. fiftyreport of independent accountantsinternational business machines corporationand Subsidiary Companies To the Stockholders and Board of Directors of International Business Machines Corporation:In our opinion, the accompanying consolidated financial statements, appearing on pages 64 through 93, present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of International Business Machines Corporation and subsidiary companies at December 31, 2000 and 1999, and the results of their operations and their cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2000, in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. These financial statements are the responsibility of the company’s management; our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements based on our audits. We conducted our audits of these statements in accordance with auditing standards generally accepted in the United States of America, which require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements, assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, and evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.PricewaterhouseCoopers LLPNew York, New York January 17, 2001page no.fifty-one
OVERVIEW OF 2000IBM finished the year 2000 with a strong fourth quarter performance after three challenging quarters. The company’s revenue, net income and earnings per share again reached record levels and cash flow was strong. In many respects, the full-year financial performance reflects momentum that had been building steadily all year, momentum that is an affirmation of the strategies adopted over the last several years: a focus on services and solutions; powerful, scalable servers; and open-source platforms. The company also had solid full-year results in the strategic high-growth areas of services, middleware software and technology. In addition, Global Services ended the year with a strong backlog of services contracts totaling $85 billion, up from $60 billion at year-end 1999.   The company reported revenue of $88.4 billion, net income of $8.1 billion and $4.44 diluted earnings per common share. The effects of adverse currency movements lowered year-to-year revenue growth from approximately 4 percent at constant currency to 1 percent on an as reported basis. In Europe/Middle East/Africa, revenue declined 5 percent (up 6 percent at constant currency). Asia Pacific revenue grew 16 percent (15 percent at constant currency). In the Americas, revenue decreased 0.5 percent (flat at constant currency).   In 2000, aggressive focus on cost and expense management improved the company’s gross profit margin (despite a changing mix of business) and net income margin. The company continued to use technology and other productivity improvements to enhance the efficiency of its operations, particularly by increasing the revenue generation and customer service capabilities of ibm.com and significantly increasing electronic processing within the procurement function.   The company ended 2000 with cash and cash equivalents and current marketable securities of $3.7 billion, after funding investments of over $18 billion in capital expenditures; research, development and engineering; strategic acquisitions; and repurchases of common stock. During 2000, the company announced a multi-year, $5 billion program to build an advanced chip-making facility and to expand operations at its worldwide technology facilities. Share repurchases resulted in common shares outstanding at year-end 2000 of 1.74 billion, down 2 percent compared with 1.78 billion last year. During 2000, the company’s nonglobal financing related debt was reduced while Global Financing debt increased in line with the asset growth of the Global Financing business.CHALLENGESThe company’s broad portfolio and geographic diversification position it well relative to its competitors in 2001. The company’s top priority is to build on the momentum of last year, driven, for the most part, by business strategies taking hold; the marketplace moving in the company’s direction; demand increasing for IBM’s products and services (particularly e-business applications and services); and the company’s improved execution.    In 2001, the company faces concerns that economic softness in the United States could worsen and expand into non-U.S. markets. Increasingly aggressive price competition and the potential effects of ongoing adverse currency movements are other areas of volatility.   Yet, even against a backdrop of uncertainty, the company is in a unique competitive position. Its traditional customer base—essentially large, global institutions—requires the technology and services of the company to improve competitiveness, in both good times and bad. The company’s ability to integrate complex technologies across the full range of computing platforms sets it apart from competitors. FORWARD-LOOKING AND CAUTIONARY STATEMENTSCertain statements contained in this Annual Report may constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements involve a number of risks, uncertainties and other factors that could cause actual results to be materially different, as discussed more fully elsewhere in this Annual Report and in the company’s filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including the company’s 2000 Form 10-K to be filed on or about March 12, 2001.RESULTS OF OPERATIONS(dollars in millions except per share amounts)200019991998Revenue$«88,396$«87,548$«81,667Cost55,97255,61950,795Gross profit32,42431,92930,872Gross profit margin36.7%36.4%37.8Total expense20,89020,17221,832Income before income taxes$«11,534$«11,757$«««9,040Net income $«««8,093$«÷7,712$«««6,328Earnings per share of common stock:Assuming dilution$«««««4.44$÷÷«4.12$«««««3.29$«««««4.58$÷÷«4.25$÷÷«3.38%page no. fifty-twoBasicThe average number of common shares outstanding assuming dilution was lower by 59.0 million shares in 2000 versus 1999 and 49.1 million shares in 1999 versus 1998, primarily as a result of the company’s common share repurchase program. The average number of shares outstanding assuming dilution was 1,812.1 million, 1,871.1 million and 1,920.1 million, respectively, at December 31, 2000, 1999 and 1998.   The following table identifies the company’s percentage of revenue by segment:20001999 *1998 *Hardware 42.7%43.3%44.2Global Services 37.536.735.4Software 14.314.514.5Global Financing 3.93.63.5Enterprise Investments/ Other1.61.92.4Total100.0%100.0%100.0%%* Reclassified to conform with 2000 presentation.The overall gross profit margin of 36.7 percent increased 0.3 points from 1999, following a 1.4 point decline in 1999 versus 1998. The increase in gross profit margin was primarily driven by improvement in the hardware margin associated with microelectronics and personal computer products. This increase was partially offset by a lower Global Services margin and the company’s continued shift in revenue to Global Services, which has a lower gross profit margin than the company’s server products. The decline in 1999 versus 1998 was primarily due to the company’s changing mix of revenue toward Global Services and away from server products.   In the Americas, full-year 2000 revenue was $38.6 billion, down 0.5 percent (flat at constant currency) from the 1999 period. Revenue from Europe/Middle East/Africa was$24.3 billion, a decrease of 5.3 percent (up 6 percent at constant currency). Asia Pacific revenue grew 16.4 percent (15 percent at constant currency) to $17.7 billion. Original equipment manufacturer (OEM) revenue decreased 0.9 percent (1 percent decrease at constant currency) to $7.8 billion.    Information about the company’s operating segments can be found in note X, “Segment Information,” on pages 89 through 93. Note X provides additional information, including a description of the products and services of each segment, as well as financial data pertaining to each segment.   The following discussion is based on the Consolidated Financial Statements on pages 64 through 68, which reflect, in all material respects, the company’s segment results on an external basis. Hardware(dollars in millions)20001999 *1998 *Revenue$«37,777$«37,888$«36,096Cost27,03827,59124,653Gross profit$«10,739$«10,297$«11,44328.4%27.2%31.7Gross profit margin	%* Reclassified to conform with 2000 presentation.Hardware revenue was essentially flat (up 2 percent at constant currency) in 2000 versus 1999 and increased 5.0 percent (5 percent at constant currency) in 1999 compared with 1998.   In January 2000, the company reorganized the Server segment and renamed it the Enterprise Systems segment. In accordance with that organizational change, the company transferred system-level product businesses from the Technology segment to the Enterprise Systems segment. Those system-level product businesses are the company’s disk storage products, which include the Enterprise Storage Server known as “Shark,” tape subsystems and the company’s storage area networking program, and networking products. Also, in January 2000, the company transferred the Retail Store Solutions business, a leader in providing point-of-sale solutions, to the Personal Systems segment from the Enterprise Investments segment. All amounts disclosed herein for all years presented have been reclassified to conform with these changes.   Technology revenue increased 4.0 percent when compared with 1999, following an increase of 13.0 percent in 1999 versus 1998. The increase in 2000 revenue was driven by strong growth in custom logic, networking and pervasive computing products, partially offset by lower hard disk drive (HDD) revenue. Although HDD revenue declined for the full year due primarily to delays in the 10K RPM drive, revenue sequentially improved each quarter in 2000 and from the 1999 fourth quarter to the 2000 fourth quarter. page no.fifty-three   The Technology segment results were also affected by supply constraints of wafers and ceramic substrates in the second half of 2000. In both cases, strong demand for these items from internal users and external OEM customers exceeded the company’s ability to supply these components. The company improved its ability to manage this challenge toward the end of the year through short-term and strategic actions. In addition, on October 10, 2000, the company announced plans to invest $5.0 billion in the following projects: (1) building an advanced chip-making facility in East Fishkill, New York; (2) expanding its chip-making capacity in Burlington, Vermont and Yasu, Japan, as well as at a joint venture in Essonnes, France; and (3) expanding its organic and ceramic chip-packaging operations worldwide.   The company took actions in 1999 in the microelectronics and storage areas that were aimed at strengthening the Technology segment over the long term. Those actions were intended to shift the focus of the Technology segment to higher margin businesses and more efficient operations. To further achieve these goals, the company sold its MiCRUS semiconductor business in June 2000. (See note Q, “1999 Actions,” on pages 81 and 82 for additional information.)    Strong growth in OEM technology, primarily custom logic and high-performance static random access memory (SRAM) revenue drove the increase in 1999 revenue. A slower growth rate in HDD storage revenue in 1999 versus 1998 reflected pricing pressures.    Personal Systems revenue grew 0.8 percent in 2000 from 1999, following an increase of 20.1 percent in 1999 versus 1998. The change in 2000 revenue was driven by increased revenue in xSeries servers and mobile products, partially offset by lower desktop personal computer and retail store solutions revenue. The decline in desktop revenue was driven by consumer products, as the company decided in 1999 to exit retail channels in the United States and Europe. The Personal Systems segment has benefited from the companywide focus on building a competitive cost and expense structure, which has been crucial in enabling the company to price personal computers competitively. The segment was profitable for the second half of 2000 despite a challenging industry environment. The increase in 1999 revenue versus 1998 was primarily driven by strong revenue growth in Netfinity servers and mobile products. Mobile revenue was constrained due to a shortage of flat-panel displays in the second half of 1999.    In October 2000, the company announced IBM eServers to manage the unprecedented demands of e-business. This new generation of servers features mainframe-class reliability and scalability, broad support of open standards for the development of new applications, and capacity on demand. The new servers feature technology from the company’s high-end server brands and share the best attributes of all mainframeclass computing. The entire IBM eServer family uses Tivoli e-infrastructure management software which manages all components of a heterogeneous e-business infrastructure.    IBM zSeries mainframe servers are at the heart of the e-business infrastructure for mission-critical data and transaction processing.   IBM pSeries servers are the most powerful, technologically advanced UNIX servers.   IBM iSeries mid-range servers are integrated mid-range business servers that run sophisticated business applications. IBM xSeries servers are Intel-based servers.   In 2000, Enterprise Systems revenue declined 1.4 percent from 1999, following a decrease of 16.9 percent in 1999 versus 1998. Revenue grew for the pSeries UNIX servers with particular strength in the mid-range and high-end Web servers in 2000 versus 1999. This increase was more than offset by revenue declines for the mid-range iSeries servers and the zSeries servers in 2000 as compared to 1999. Although zSeries servers revenue declined, total deliveries of computing power increased more than 20 percent as measured in MIPS (millions of instructions per second) versus 1999. In addition, revenue from the company’s storage systems products, which include “Shark,” increased year over year, while revenue from networking products declined, consistent with the company’s divestment strategy.   In 1999, lower revenue primarily from S/390, AS/400 and RS/6000 servers drove the revenue decline versus 1998. These declines were primarily driven by Y2K-related issues that affected the second-half results. Many of the company’s large customers locked down their systems and technology purchases heading into the Y2K transition. In addition, the storage networking product decreases resulted, in part, from the sale of routing and switching intellectual property to Cisco Systems, Inc.   Hardware gross profit dollars increased 4.3 percent in 2000 from 1999, following a 10.0 percent decline in 1999 versus 1998. The increase in gross profit dollars was primarily driven by increased revenue and improvements in the gross profit margin for microelectronics and personal computers. The decline in gross profit dollars in 1999 resulted from a shift in the company’s revenue away from servers, pricing pressures associated with HDDs, and memory chip price declines.   The hardware gross profit margin increased in 2000 by 1.2 points versus 1999 and declined 4.5 points in 1999 compared to 1998. The increase in 2000 was primarily driven by improved margins in microelectronics and personal computers. The decrease in 1999 was driven by the shift in the company’s revenue away from servers to lower gross profit products, such as personal computers, OEM chip technology and HDDs, as well as price pressures.Global Services page no. fifty-four(dollars in millions)200019991998Revenue $«33,152$«32,172$«28,916Cost24,30923,30421,125Gross profit$«««8,843$«««8,868$«««7,79126.7%27.6%26.9Gross profit margin	%   Global Services revenue increased 3.0 percent (6 percent at constant currency) in 2000 over 1999 and 11.3 percent (11 percent at constant currency) in 1999 over 1998. Revenue comparisons in 2000 were adversely affected by two events: the sale of the Global Network to AT&T in 1999 and the decline in Y2K services activity year over year. After adjusting for those two factors, Global Services revenue (excluding maintenance) increased 9 percent in 2000 and 17 percent in 1999. (See note D, “Acquisitions/Divestitures,” on pages 72 through 74 for additional information about the Global Network sale.) Maintenance revenue was flat in 2000 when compared to 1999 and declined 1 percent in 1999 versus 1998. Strategic Outsourcing Services and Integrated Technology Services were the major contributors to the revenue growth in 2000 and 1999. Strategic Outsourcing Services continued to demonstrate good revenue growth in 2000 as compared to 1999, with particularly strong growth in Asia Pacific. Integrated Technology Services benefited from growth in OEM alliance revenue, especially as related to Cisco Systems products. These increases were partially offset by the loss of revenue due to the sale of the Global Network and lower revenue growth from Business Innovation Services primarily resulting from the decline in Y2K activity. Business Innovation Services recovered in the second half of 2000 as customers shifted from mature offerings such as custom systems integration and Y2K remediation to the company’s e-business offerings. Business Innovation Services revenue, exclusive of Y2K and custom systems integration, experienced strong growth in 2000.   e-business spans many of the Global Services offerings and contributed significantly to 2000 performance. The company’s total discrete e-business revenue grew more than 70 percent to approximately $5 billion in 2000. This increase was driven by e-commerce consulting, e-business enablement and e-hosting services.    In 2000, the company signed contracts totaling $55 billion, including 60 contracts in excess of $100 million, 6 of which exceeded $1 billion. These transactions contributed to a services backlog at December 31, 2000, of $85 billion compared with $60 billion at December 31, 1999. The company continued to meet the demand for its services by hiring more than 19,000 employees in 2000 and 17,000 employees in 1999. Global Services gross profit dollars were essentially flat in 2000 compared to 1999 and increased 13.8 percent in 1999 versus 1998. The decline in gross profit margin in 2000 of 0.9 points was driven by lower utilization rates in Business Innovation Services and Integrated Technology Services due to rapid hiring and retraining associated with rebalancing skills toward e-business services. Also contributing to the decline was a revenue shift to OEM alliances, which have a lower gross profit margin. The maintenance gross profit margin improved 0.6 points in 2000 versus 1999 due to continued productivity improvements and effective cost management.    Global Services gross profit dollars and gross profit margins improved in 1999 as compared with 1998 due to significant productivity improvements that more than offset competitive pressures and the negative effect of the changing mix of services and maintenance within the Global Services portfolio.Software (dollars in millions)200019991998Revenue$«12,598$«12,662$«11,863Cost2,2832,2402,260Gross profit$«10,315$«10,422$«««9,60381.9%82.3%80.9Gross profit margin	%Software revenue declined 0.5 percent (up 4 percent at constant currency) in 2000 from 1999, following an increase of 6.7 percent (8 percent at constant currency) from 1998. The company’s middleware products had revenue growth of 3 percent in 2000 and 12 percent in 1999. Middleware comprises data management, transaction processing, Tivoli systems management and Lotus Notes messaging and collaboration for both IBM and non-IBM platforms. This growth was driven by the company’s key products on UNIX and Windows NT platforms, led by WebSphere (Web application server software), MQSeries (business integration software) and DB2 (data management) offerings. These increases in middleware revenue were partially offset by revenue declines for Tivoli products as they were affected by a transition in the systems management software marketplace. The company continues to focus on helping customers use its software to transform their businesses to e-businesses, particularly in collaboration with the company’s Global Services offerings, Independent Software Vendors, Web integrators and other service providers.    Operating systems software revenue declined 9 percent in 2000 and 4 percent in 1999 when compared with the previous period. The decline in 2000 was driven by lower revenue associated with eSeries servers and legacy products. The 1999 decline was driven by lower AS/400 revenue.page no. fifty-five   Software gross profit dollars decreased 1.0 percent in 2000 from 1999, following an increase of 8.5 percent in 1999 from 1998. The decline in gross profit dollars in 2000 was primarily because of lower revenue, higher costs for purchased vendor software and higher vendor royalty payments, partially offset by lower amortization and services costs. Increased revenue and lower amortization costs associated with previously capitalized software development spending drove the 1999 improvement, partially offset by higher vendor royalty payments primarily due to increased volumes. Global Financing (dollars in millions)200019991998Revenue$«3,465$«3,137$«2,877Cost1,5951,4461,494Gross profit$«1,870$«1,691$«1,38354.0%53.9%48.1Gross profit margin	%Global Financing revenue increased 10.4 percent (13 percent at constant currency) in 2000 from 1999, following an increase of 9.0 percent (10 percent at constant currency) in 1999 versus 1998. Growth in sales of used equipment and in commercial financing drove the revenue increase in 2000. The revenue increase in 1999 over 1998 was due to growth in commercial financing and in financing of software and services.    Gross profit dollars increased 10.6 percent in 2000 versus 1999, following an increase of 22.3 percent in 1999 over 1998. The increase in 2000 was primarily driven by higher sales of used equipment and an improving gross profit margin on these sales. The increase in 1999, as well as in 2000, reflects the company’s ongoing strategy to increase its use of the Global Treasury Centers rather than have the Global Financing business directly access external funding sources. This strategy minimizes the company’s overall cost of borrowing via an efficient and economical centralized funding strategy that enables the company to access the global capital markets. This results in a shift of some costs within the Consolidated Statement of Earnings from Cost of Global Financing to Interest expense. (See the Debt/Equity section of the Management Discussion on page 60 for additional discussion of Global Financing debt and note J, “Borrowings,” on page 75 for additional discussion of the company’s interest expense.) Enterprise Investments/Other(dollars in millions)20001999 *1998 *Revenue$«1,404$«1,689$«1,915Cost7471,0381,263Gross profit$««««657$««««651$««««65246.8%38.5%34.0Gross profit margin	%* Reclassified to conform with 2000 presentation.Enterprise Investments/Other revenue decreased 16.9 percent (13 percent at constant currency) from 1999, following a decrease of 11.8 percent (12 percent at constant currency) in 1999 from 1998. The decrease in both years was driven by lower revenue associated with the company’s decision in 1999 to discontinue certain product lines, such as automated teller machines (ATMs), partially offset by growth in computer-aided three-dimensional interactive application (CATIA) software.    The gross profit dollars from Enterprise Investments/ Other increased 0.9 percent in 2000 versus 1999, and were flat in 1999 versus 1998. The increase in 2000 gross profit dollars and gross profit margin was primarily due to a shift in the mix of revenue to software products that have a higher gross profit margin than the hardware product lines the company discontinued in 1999.Expenses(dollars in millions)200019991998Selling, general and administrative$«15,639$«14,729$«16,662Percentage of revenue17.7%16.8%20.4Research, development and engineering$«««5,151$«««5,273$«««5,0465.8%6.0%6.2%Percentage of revenue	%Selling, general and administrative (SG&A) expense increased6.2 percent in 2000 versus 1999, following a decline of 11.6 percent in 1999 compared with 1998. The increase in 2000 was primarily driven by the 1999 net pre-tax benefit of $2,107 million associated with the sale of the Global Network, actions taken by the company in 1999 to improve its competitiveness and to strengthen the company’s overall business portfolio, and implementation of a change in personal computers’ depreciable lives. (See note D, “Acquisitions/Divestitures,” on pages 72 through 74, and note Q, “1999 Actions,” on pages 81 and 82 for further information.) Excluding the 1999 actions and sale of the Global Network, 2000 SG&A expense would have declined 7.1 percent versus 1999 and increased 1.0 percent in 1999 compared with 1998. In addition, its percentage of revenue would have been 17.7 percent for 2000, 19.2 percent for 1999 and 20.4 percent for 1998. page no. fifty-six   This improved expense-to-revenue ratio in 2000 results from the company’s aggressive management of its infrastructure expense and discretionary spending, and improvements in its productivity through the use of technology and other productivity tools. Examples include revenue generation and customer services capabilities of ibm.com and a significant increase in electronic processing within the procurement function. The company also continues to benefit from growth in its licensing of intellectual property. In addition, the company has lower expenses as a result of the sale of the Global Network and actions taken in 1999 to exit such businesses as networking hardware and DRAM (dynamic random access memory) manufacturing. SG&A expense also benefited from the effects of currency and asset sales, excluding securities, in 2000.   The increase in 1999 compared to 1998, excluding the benefit from the action taken by the company in 1999, was primarily driven by the company’s ongoing investments in software marketing and major marketing campaigns including the e-business campaign. These expenditures were consistent with the company’s objective of growing revenue while improving the expense-to-revenue ratio over time.   Research, development and engineering (RD&E) expense declined 2.3 percent in 2000 from 1999, following an increase of 4.5 percent in 1999 from 1998. The decline in 2000 is primarily due to a $111 million pre-tax charge taken in 1999 for acquired in-process research and development (IPR&D) associated with the acquisition of Sequent Computer Systems, Inc., Mylex Corporation and DASCOM, Inc. See note D, “Acquisitions/Divestitures,” on pages 72 through 74 for further detail about the IPR&D charge. Overall, the company continues to invest in high-growth opportunities such as e-business, Tivoli software products and initiatives to support Linux.    As a result of its ongoing research and development efforts, the company received 2,886 patents in 2000, placing it number one in patents granted in the United States for the eighth consecutive year. The application of these technological advances transforms the company’s research and development into new products.    Recent advances include high-quality inductors and transformers that can be integrated into silicon chips without consuming excess chip area, enhancing miniaturization. These high-speed circuits are used in wireless communications applications and can operate at high frequencies, which extends the use of circuits in many applications, such as cell phones and personal digital assistants.   Included in the company’s cost and expense is $327 million of benefit for retirement-related plans, including pension plans and nonpension postretirement benefits, for the year ended December 31, 2000. The comparable amounts for the years ended December 31, 1999 and 1998, were additional costs of $83 million and $286 million, respectively. See note V, “Retirement Plans,” on pages 85 through 88 and note W, “Nonpension Postretirement Benefits,” on pages 88 and 89 for the benefit and cost amounts for the major pension and nonpension postretirement plans.    For the year ended December 31, 2000, the company realized cost and expense reductions of $1,171 million due to the funded status of its pension plans. Of the total 2000 reductions, the change in actuarial assumptions for the primary U.S. plan contributed an estimated $221 million.    For the year ended December 31, 1999, the company realized cost and expense reductions of $694 million due to the funded status of its pension plans. Of the total 1999 reductions, the amendment to the U.S. plan, as more fully discussed in note V, “Retirement Plans,” on pages 85 through 88, contributed an estimated $167 million. The impact in 1999 of changes in actuarial assumptions for the U.S. Plan was approximately $143 million of additional cost. This amount is included in the $694 million cost and expense reduction amount previously noted.   The change in the discount rate from 7.75 percent to 7.25 percent, effective December 31, 2000, is not expected to have a material effect on the company’s 2001 results of operations. Effective January 1, 2001, the company increased pension benefits to recipients who retired before January 1, 1997. The increases ranged from 2.5 percent to 25 percent, and are based on the year of retirement and the pension benefit currently being received. This improvement is expected to result in an additional cost to the company of approximately $100 million in 2001.    The company does not expect to provide additional funding for the U.S. plan in 2001 because of the aforementioned items. Future effects of pension plans, including the changes noted above, on the operating results of the company depend on economic conditions, employee demographics, mortality rates and investment performance.    See note X, “Segment Information,” on pages 89 through 93 for additional information about the pre-tax income of each segment, as well as the methodologies employed by the company to allocate shared expenses to the segments.   Other income increased 10.9 percent in 2000 from 1999 and declined 5.5 percent in 1999 from 1998. The increase was primarily a result of gains from sales of available-for-sale securities held by the company, partially offset by lower interest income. The decline in 1999 versus 1998 was primarily due to lower interest income.Provision for Income TaxesThe provision for income taxes resulted in an effective tax rate of 29.8 percent for 2000, compared with the 1999 effective tax rate of 34.4 percent and a 1998 effective tax rate of 30.0 percent. The 4.6 point decrease in the 2000 rate from the 1999 rate and the 4.4 point increase in the 1999 rate from the 1998 rate were primarily the result of the company’s 1999 sale of its Global Network business and various other actions implemented during 1999. page no.fifty-seven   As reflected in the reconciliation of the company’s effective tax rate in note O, “Taxes,” on pages 80 and 81, the increased benefit on the company’s tax rate of the foreign tax differential in 2000 was principally due to the U.S. tax benefit from the repatriation of profits previously subject to foreign taxes, partially offset by a less favorable mix of profits arising in markets with lower effective tax rates. The decreased benefit of the foreign tax differential from 1998 to 1999 primarily reflects a less favorable mix of profits arising in markets with lower effective tax rates. FOURTH QUARTERThe company’s fourth-quarter results reflect the momentum that has been building steadily all year. For the quarter ended December 31, 2000, the company had revenue of $25.6 billion, an increase of 5.9 percent (12 percent at constant currency) compared with the fourth quarter of 1999. Fourth quarter 2000 net income was $2.7 billion ($1.48 per diluted common share), compared with net income of $2.1 billion ($1.12 per diluted common share) in the fourth quarter of 1999.    In the Americas, fourth-quarter revenue was $10.8 billion, an increase of 3.3 percent (4 percent at constant currency) from the 1999 period. Revenue from Europe/Middle East/ Africa was $7.4 billion, up 3.0 percent (18 percent at constant currency). Asia Pacific revenue increased 13.3 percent (20 percent at constant currency) to $5.0 billion. OEM revenue increased 13.4 percent (14 percent at constant currency) to $2.4 billion compared with the fourth quarter of 1999.   Hardware revenue increased 9.7 percent (15 percent at constant currency) to $11.4 billion from the fourth quarter of 1999, with revenue growth across all server, storage and technology hardware categories. The company began shipping its new z900 server in mid-December, contributing to a greater than 100 percent increase in shipments of mainframe computing capacity in the fourth quarter, as measured in MIPS. Revenue grew strongly for the pSeries UNIX servers, with particular strength in the mid-range and high-end Web server models. Revenues for the mid-range iSeries servers also increased, with growth across all geographic areas. Personal Systems revenue grew significantly and the unit was profitable in the quarter. Microelectronics revenue also increased strongly, principally due to continued acceleration in growth of sophisticated, leading-edge custom chips. Revenue for HDDs increased as well. Excluding networking products, storage revenue increased, driven by Shark and shipment of its advanced functions.    Revenue from Global Services, including maintenance, grew 5.2 percent (12 percent at constant currency) in the fourth quarter to $9.2 billion, reflecting revenue growth across all services categories. e-business services revenue grew more than 70 percent year over year. Revenue comparisons for Global Services were adversely affected by a year-overyear decline in the Y2K services business and the sale of the Global Network in 1999. After adjusting for these factors, Global Services revenue (excluding maintenance) increased 10.1 percent (17 percent at constant currency). The company signed more than $12.5 billion in services contracts in the quarter.    Software revenue totaled $3.6 billion, decreasing 1.0 percent (up 6 percent at constant currency) versus the fourth quarter of 1999. Revenues continued to grow strongly in the company’s middleware segment, with significant growth in database and Web-management software. Tivoli revenues declined in the quarter, reflecting an ongoing transition in this product area.   Global Financing revenue increased 6.2 percent (10 percent at constant currency) in the fourth quarter to $1.0 billion, primarily as a result of increased sales of used equipment.    Revenue from the Enterprise Investments/Other area, which includes custom hardware and software products for specialized customer uses, declined 10.7 percent (3 percent at constant currency) year over year to $425 million.    The company’s total gross profit margin was 37.7 percent in the fourth quarter of 2000 compared with 36.7 percent in the fourth quarter of 1999. The increase was driven by a 3.5 point improvement in the hardware gross profit margin as eServer, personal computer and HDD gross profit margins improved year over year. In addition, the Global Financing gross profit margin increased 6.1 points, primarily as a result of higher margins for hardware remarketing. These increases were partially offset by a decline in the Global Services gross profit margin of 0.9 points. This decline was primarily driven by lower Business Innovation Services revenue, which benefited from Y2K services in 1999, partially offset by an improvement in the Strategic Outsourcing Services gross profit margin.    Total fourth-quarter 2000 expense declined 0.3 percent when compared with the fourth quarter of 1999. SG&A expense decreased 2.4 percent, primarily driven by the effects of currency, while RD&E expense increased 2.4 percent year over year. The expense-to-revenue ratio in the fourth quarter of 2000 was 23.0 percent, compared with 24.4 percent in 1999.   The company’s tax rate was 29.5 percent in the fourth quarter, down slightly as compared with 30.0 percent in the fourth quarter of last year. page no.fifty-eight   The company spent approximately $1.4 billion on common share repurchases in the fourth quarter. The average number of common shares outstanding assuming dilution was lower by 57.2 million shares in fourth quarter 2000 versus fourth quarter 1999, primarily as a result of these repurchases. The average number of shares assuming dilution was 1,790.6 million in fourth quarter 2000 versus 1,847.8 million in fourth quarter 1999.FINANCIAL CONDITIONDuring 2000, the company continued to demonstrate strong financial performance, enabling it to make significant investments to fund future growth and increase shareholder value without increasing its non-global financing debt. The company spent $5,645 million for research, development and engineering, excluding $9 million of IPR&D; $4,360 million for plant and other property, including machines used in strategic outsourcing contracts; $1,256 million for machines on operating leases with customers; and $6,659 million for the repurchase of the company’s common shares. In addition, of the company’s nine acquisitions in 2000, the company paid cash totaling approximately $300 million of the aggregate $511 million purchase price. The company had $3,722 million in cash and cash equivalents and current marketable securities at December 31, 2000. The company’s debt levels remained essentially flat with a small increase in Global Financing debt, offset by a decline in non-global financing debt.   The company maintains a $10 billion committed global credit facility that expires in February 2002. As of December 31, 2000 and 1999, $9.1 billion and $8.6 billion were unused and available, respectively. In addition, the company had outstanding other committed and uncommitted lines of credit of approximately $4.7 billion and $5.5 billion as of December 31, 2000 and 1999, respectively. As of December 31, 2000 and 1999, $4.1 billion and $4.5 billion were unused and available, respectively.   The company managed assets of $136 million and $273 million at December 31, 2000 and 1999, respectively, from the securitization of loans, leases and trade receivables. For additional information, see note I, “Sale and Securitization of Receivables,” on page 74.    The changes in the company’s U.S. pension plan, including the increased benefits for retirees and the 1999 amendment to the plan, are not expected to have a material effect on the company’s financial condition.   The major rating agencies’ ratings of the company’s debt securities and preferred stock as of December 31, 2000, appear in the table below:Standard Moody’s and Investors Poor’s Service Fitch, Inc.Senior long-term debtA+A1AA-Commercial paperA-1Prime-1F-1+Preferred stockAa1A+Cash FlowsThe company’s cash flows from operating, investing and financing activities, as reflected in the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows on page 68, are summarized in the following table:(dollars in millions)200019991998Net cash provided from/ (used in):Operating activities$««9,274$«10,111$««««9,273Investing activities(4,248)(1,669)(6,131Financing activities(6,359)(8,625)(4,993Effect of exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents(147)(149)120Net change in cash and cash equivalents$«(1,480)$«««««(332)$«««(1,731)))Working Capital(dollars in millions)AT DECEMBER 31:20001999Current assets$«43,880$«43,155Current liabilities36,40639,578Working capital$÷«7,474$«««3,577Current ratio1.21:11.09:1Current assets increased $725 million due primarily to an increase in accounts receivable of $3,108 million, offset by decreases of $2,109 million in cash and cash equivalents and current marketable securities, and $206 million in deferred taxes. The increase in accounts receivable was due to strong year-end business volumes and global financing activity in the software and services businesses across all geographies. The decrease in cash and cash equivalents and current marketable securities resulted primarily from stock repurchases and capital expenditures, partially offset by cash generated from operations.    The company ended 2000 with inventories of $4,765 million, the lowest level since 1983, primarily a result of lower inventory levels within Enterprise Systems segment and Microelectronics Division, and currency translation on inventories outside the United States. The company’s inventory turnover ratio improved to 6.3 in 2000 from 5.9 in 1999.page no. fifty-nine   Current liabilities declined $3,172 million from year-end 1999, primarily due to decreases of $4,025 million in shortterm debt and $922 million in other accrued expenses and liabilities, offset by an increase in accounts payable of $1,792 million. The increase was primarily due to strong year-end business volumes, primarily in the Enterprise Systems segment, across all geographies.InvestmentsThe company’s investments for plant, rental machines and other property were $5,616 million for 2000, a decrease of $343 million from 1999.    In addition to software development expenses included in research, development and engineering, the company capitalized $565 million of software costs during 2000, an increase of $101 million from the 1999 period. The increase resulted, in part, from the adoption of Emerging Issues Task Force Issue No. 00-2, “Accounting for Web Site Development Costs.” In 2000 the company capitalized $81 million of certain Web site development costs.    Investments and sundry assets were $14,447 million at the end of 2000, an increase of $775 million from 1999, primarily the result of increases in prepaid pension assets and deferred taxes, offset by declines in alliance investments and goodwill. See note H, “Investments and Sundry Assets,” on page 74 for additional information.    The company continues to invest significantly in its rapidly growing services business, primarily in the management of customers’ information technology and in manufacturing capacity for microelectronics. The company has announced plans to redirect approximately $1 billion in 2001 to the open-source Linux operating system including hardware and software development, the operation of its Linux Technology Center, and various marketing initiatives across the country. Additionally, the company plans to invest $4 billion over the next three years in the information technology outsourcing sector.    On October 10, 2000, the company announced plans to invest $5.0 billion in the following projects: (1) building an advanced chip-making facility in East Fishkill, New York; (2) expanding its chip-making capacity in Burlington, Vermont and Yasu, Japan, as well as at a joint venture in Essonnes, France; and (3) expanding its organic and ceramic chip packaging operations worldwide. The company anticipates these actions to be completed over the next four years.   The company has remaining authorization as of December 31, 2000, to purchase $2,870 million of IBM common shares in the open market from time to time, based on market conditions.   The company expects to fund these investments primarily with cash from ongoing operations.Debt and EquityThe majority of the company’s funding is executed by Corporate Treasury in support of the Global Financing segment. A process has been established for monitoring the Global Financing funding requirements and executing strategies to manage the company’s overall asset and liability profile. Additionally, the company maintains sufficient flexibility to access global funding sources as needed. During 2000, the company issued debt denominated in U.S. dollars, Japanese yen, Euros and Swiss francs to meet existing financing needs.   The company’s total debt increased $222 million to $28,576 million. Financing businesses have different capital structures than non-financing businesses, and therefore the analysis of this change and certain ratios are discussed below on both a Global Financing and a non-global financing basis.GLOBAL FINANCING(dollars in millions)AT DECEMBER 31:20001999Assets*$«40,822$«39,686Debt**27,51426,799Equity÷«4,142«««4,8646.65.5Debt/Equity	x	x* Global Financing assets include cash, financing receivables (see note F, “Financing Receivables,” on page 74), intercompany amounts, rental machine fixed assets and other assets.** Global Financing debt includes external debt of the Global Financing business that generates the interest expense included in Cost of Global Financing on the Consolidated Statement of Earnings. Global Financing debt also includes intercompany borrowings from other company units. The total interest expense related to Global Financing debt is presented in note X, “Segment Information,” on pages 89 through 93.The Global Financing segment is a financial services business and is, therefore, more debt dependent than the company’s other businesses. At December 31, 2000, more than 95 percent of the company’s total debt was attributable to this business, and supported almost half of the company’s total assets. In 2000, Global Financing debt to equity ratio increased to 6.6x, which is within management’s acceptable target range. Typically, a financial services business has a higher leverage than an industrial or technology business given its low return on asset characteristics. non-global financing(dollars in millions)AT DECEMBER 31:20001999Debt*$«1,062$«1,555Debt/Capitalization6.1%9.0**÷«24«««19%EBITDA/Interest Expense	x	x* Non-global financing debt is the company’s total external debt less the Global Financing debt described in the Global Financing table above.page no. sixty**EBITDA is earnings before interest and taxes, plus depreciation and amortization, adjusted for minimum rental commitments and for one-time items such as the 1999 actions and the sale of the Global Network. The interest expense used in the denominator represents the company’s total interest expense less the Global Financing interest expense disclosed in note X, “Segment Information,” on pages 89 through 93.The company’s non-global financing businesses generate significant cash from ongoing operations and therefore generally do not require a significant amount of debt. Cash flows from operations are these businesses’ primary source of funds for future investments.    The company’s total consolidated stockholders’ equity increased $113 million to $20,624 million at December 31, 2000, primarily due to the increase in retained earnings, partially offset by the company’s ongoing stock repurchase program and Accumulated gains and losses not affecting retained earnings. (See note M, “Stockholders’ Equity Activity,” on page 79).Currency Rate Fluctuations Changes in the relative values of non-U.S. currencies to the U.S. dollar affect the company’s results. At December 31, 2000, currency changes resulted in assets and liabilities denominated in local currencies being translated into fewer dollars than at year-end 1999. The currency rate changes had an unfavorable effect on revenue growth of approximately 3 percent in 2000, minimal effect in 1999 and an unfavorable effect of approximately 2 percent in 1998.    For non-U.S. subsidiaries and branches that operate in U.S. dollars or whose economic environment is highly inflationary, translation adjustments are reflected in results of operations, as required by Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 52, “Foreign Currency Translation.” Generally, the company manages currency risk in these entities by linking prices and contracts to U.S. dollars and entering into foreign currency hedge contracts.   The company uses a variety of financial hedging instruments to limit specific currency risks related to financing transactions and other foreign currency-based transactions. Further discussion of currency and hedging appears in note K, “Financial Instruments,” on pages 76 and 77.    On January 1, 2001, the company adopted SFAS No. 133, “Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities.” The company does not expect this standard to have a significant impact on the Consolidated Statement of Earnings. This standard will result in an incremental grossup of certain assets and liabilities, including fair value adjustments to the company’s portfolio of fixed-rate debt. In addition, the standard may result in increased volatility within the stockholders’ equity section of the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position (Accumulated gains and losses not affecting retained earnings). See note B, “Accounting Changes,” on pages 71 and 72 for additional information regarding SFAS No. 133.Market RiskIn the normal course of business, the financial position of the company routinely is subject to a variety of risks. In addition to the market risk associated with interest rate and currency movements on outstanding debt and non-U.S. dollar denominated assets and liabilities, other examples of risk include collectibility of accounts receivable and recoverability of residual values on leased assets.   The company regularly assesses all of these risks and has established policies and business practices to protect against the adverse effects of these and other potential exposures. As a result, the company does not anticipate any material losses from these risks.   The company’s debt in support of the Global Financing business and the geographic breadth of the company’s operations include an element of market risk from changes in interest and currency rates. The company manages this risk, in part, through the use of a variety of financial instruments including derivatives, as explained in note K, “Financial Instruments,” on pages 76 and 77.   To meet disclosure requirements, the company performs sensitivity analysis to determine the effects that market risk exposures may have on the fair values of the company’s debt and other financial instruments.   The financial instruments that are included in the sensitivity analysis comprise all of the company’s cash and cash equivalents, marketable securities, long-term non-lease receivables, investments, long-term and short-term debt and all derivative financial instruments. The company’s portfolio of derivative financial instruments includes interest rate swaps, interest rate options, foreign currency swaps, forward contracts and foreign currency option contracts.page no. sixty-one   To perform sensitivity analysis, the company assesses the risk of loss in fair values from the effect of hypothetical changes in interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates on market-sensitive instruments. The market values for interest and foreign currency exchange risk are computed based on the present value of future cash flows as affected by the changes in rates that are attributable to the market risk that is being measured. The company selected the discount rates that it used for the present value computations based on market interest and foreign currency exchange rates in effect at December 31, 2000 and 1999. The differences in this comparison are the hypothetical gains or losses associated with each type of risk.   Information provided by the sensitivity analysis does not necessarily represent the actual changes in fair value that the company would incur under normal market conditions because, due to practical limitations, all variables other than the specific market risk factor are held constant. In addition, the results of the model are constrained by the fact that certain items are specifically excluded from the analysis, while the financial instruments that relate to the financing or hedging of those items are included by definition. Excluded items include leased assets, forecasted foreign currency cash flows, and the company’s net investment in foreign operations. As a consequence, the reported changes in the values of some financial instruments that affect the results of the sensitivity analysis are not matched with the offsetting changes in the values of the items that those instruments are designed to finance or hedge.    The results of the sensitivity analysis at December 31, 2000, and December 31, 1999, are as follows:INTEREST RATE RISKAs of December 31, 2000, a 10 percent decrease in the levels of interest rates with all other variables held constant would result in a decrease in the fair value of the company’s financial instruments of $99 million as compared with a decrease of $164 million as of December 31, 1999. A 10 percent increase in the levels of interest rates with all other variables held constant would result in an increase in the fair value of the company’s financial instruments of $83 million as of December 31, 2000, as compared with an increase of $145 million as of December 31, 1999. Changes in the relative sensitivity of the fair value of the company’s financial instrument portfolio for these theoretical changes in the level of interest rates primarily are driven by changes in the company’s debt maturity and interest rate profile and amount. In 2000 versus 1999, the reported decline in interest rate sensitivity primarily is due to adjustments in the company’s “receive fixed/pay floating” interest rate swap portfolio to more closely match the maturity profile of the company’s fixed rate debt.FOREIGN CURRENCY EXCHANGE RATE RISK As of December 31, 2000, a 10 percent decrease or increase in the levels of foreign currency exchange rates against the U.S. dollar with all other variables held constant would result in a decrease in the fair value of the company’s financial instruments of $1,352 million or an increase in the fair value of the company’s financial instruments of $1,435 million, respectively, compared with a decrease of $1,319 million or an increase of $1,340 million, respectively, as of December 31, 1999. The change in the relative sensitivity of the fair value of the company’s financial instrument portfolio to the level of foreign currency exchange rates was primarily driven by increased hedging activity of foreign currency transactions in accordance with the company’s established risk management practices. As the effect of offsetting changes in the fair market value of the company’s anticipated foreign currency cash flows are not included in the sensitivity model, the results of the analysis are not indicative of an increase in the company’s actual exposure to foreign currency exchange rate risk.Financing Risks Global Financing is an integral part of the company’s total worldwide offerings. Inherent in Global Financing are certain risks, including credit, interest rate, currency and residual value. The company manages credit risk through comprehensive credit evaluations and pricing practices. To manage the risks associated with an uncertain interest rate environment, the company pursues a funding strategy of substantially matching the interest rate profile of its debt with the interest rate profile of its assets. Currency risks are managed by denominating liabilities in the same currency as the assets.   Residual value risk is managed by developing projections of future equipment values at lease inception, reevaluating these projections periodically, and effectively deploying remarketing capabilities to recover residual values and potentially earn a profit. The following table presents the recorded amount of unguaranteed residual values for salestype and operating leases as of December 31, 1998, 1999 and 2000. In addition, the table presents the run out of the unguaranteed residual value over the remaining lives of these leases as of December 31, 2000. The following table excludes approximately $34 million of estimated residual value associated with non-information technology equipment. There was no significant change in the ratio of the unguaranteed residual value to total net investment in salestype leases from December 31, 1999 to December 31, 2000. 
	Total	Run out of 2000 Balance2004 and(dollars in millions)199819992000200120022003beyondSales-type leases $««««685$««««737$÷÷751$«275$«273$«174$«29Operating leases731609396230124375Total residual value$«1,416$«1,346$«1,147$«505$«397$«211$«34page no.sixty-twoEMPLOYEES AND RELATED WORKFORCEPercentage Changes2000199919982000-991999-98IBM/wholly owned subsidiaries316,303307,401291,0672.95.6Less than wholly owned subsidiaries21,88617,17621,70427.4(20.9)Complementary25,50029,80036,900(14.4)(19.2)
In 2000, the number of IBM employees, including employees in wholly owned subsidiaries, increased nearly 9,000 year over year. The company’s strategic growth areas—services, software and technology—continue to drive the increase; Global Services hired in excess of 19,000 people in 2000. Acquisitions, such as the LGS Group Inc. in Canada, contributed to the increase, as well. The company continues to reduce its infrastructure and to withdraw from certain businesses, offsetting some of the growth. The increase in employees in the less than wholly owned subsidiaries over 1999 reflects growth primarily in subsidiaries within the company’s storage, personal computer and microelectronics businesses in China, and services in Japan and Australia.    The company’s complementary workforce is an approximation of equivalent full-time employees hired under temporary, part-time and limited-term employment arrangements to meet specific business needs in a flexible and cost-effective manner.
page no.sixty-three
consolidated statement of earningsinternational business machines corporationand Subsidiary Companies (dollars in millions except per share amounts)FOR THE YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31:Notes20001999 *1998 *Revenue:Hardware $«37,777$«37,888$«36,096Global Services 33,15232,17228,916Software 12,59812,66211,863Global Financing 3,4653,1372,877Enterprise Investments/Other1,4041,6891,915Total revenue88,39687,54881,667Cost:Hardware 27,03827,59124,653Global Services 24,30923,30421,125Software 2,2832,2402,260Global Financing J1,5951,4461,494Enterprise Investments/Other7471,0381,263Total cost55,97255,61950,795Gross profit32,42431,92930,872Expense:Selling, general and administrativep15,63914,72916,662Research, development and engineeringR5,1515,2735,046Other income(617)(557)(589Interest expenseJ & K717727713Total expense20,89020,17221,832Income before income taxes11,53411,7579,040Provision for income taxesO3,4414,0452,712Net income8,0937,7126,328Preferred stock dividends202020Net income applicable to common stockholders$«««8,073$«««7,692$÷«6,308Earnings per share of common stock:Assuming dilutionS$«««««4.44$««÷«4.12$«÷««3.29BasicS$«««««4.58$«÷««4.25$«÷««3.38)Average number of common shares outstanding:Assuming dilution: 2000—1,812,118,422; 1999—1,871,073,912; 1998—1,920,130,470Basic: 2000—1,763,037,049; 1999—1,808,538,346; 1998—1,869,005,570* Reclassified to conform with 2000 presentation.The accompanying notes on pages 69 through 93 are an integral part of the financial statements.page no.sixty-fourconsolidated statement of financial positioninternational business machines corporationand Subsidiary Companies (dollars in millions except per share amounts)AT DECEMBER 31:Notes20001999 *AssetsCurrent assets:Cash and cash equivalents$÷«3,563$«««5,043Marketable securitiesK159788Notes and accounts receivable—trade, net of allowances10,4479,103Short-term financing receivablesF18,70517,156Other accounts receivable1,5741,359InventoriesE4,7654,868Deferred taxesO2,7012,907Prepaid expenses and other current assets1,9661,931Total current assets43,88043,155Plant, rental machines and other propertyG38,45539,616Less: Accumulated depreciation21,74122,026Plant, rental machines and other property—net16,71417,590Long-term financing receivablesF13,30813,078Investments and sundry assetsH14,44713,672Total assets$«88,349$«87,495Liabilities and Stockholders’ Equity Current liabilities:TaxesO$÷«4,827$÷«4,792Short-term debtJ & K10,20514,230Accounts payable8,1926,400Compensation and benefits3,8013,840Deferred income4,5164,529Other accrued expenses and liabilities4,8655,787Total current liabilities36,40639,578Long-term debtJ & K18,37114,124Other liabilitiesL12,94813,282Total liabilities67,72566,984ContingenciesNStockholders’ equity:MPreferred stock, par value $.01 per share247247Shares authorized: 150,000,000Shares issued and outstanding (2000 and 1999—2,546,011)Common stock, par value $.20 per shareC12,40011,762Shares authorized: 4,687,500,000  Shares issued (2000—1,893,940,595; 1999—1,876,665,245) Retained earnings23,78416,878Treasury stock, at cost (shares: 2000—131,041,411; 1999—72,449,015)(13,800)(7,375Employee benefits trust (shares: 2000 and 1999—20,000,000)(1,712)(2,162Accumulated gains and losses not affecting retained earnings(295)1,161Total stockholders’ equity20,62420,511Total liabilities and stockholders’ equity$«88,349$«87,495))* Reclassified to conform with 2000 presentation.The accompanying notes on pages 69 through 93 are an integral part of the financial statements. page no.sixty-fiveconsolidated statement of stockholders’ equityinternational business machines corporationand Subsidiary CompaniesAccumulatedGains andLosses Not	Employee	Affecting	Preferred	Common	Retained	Treasury	Benefits	Retained(dollars in millions)	Stock	Stock	Earnings	Stock	Trust	Earnings	Total1998Stockholders’ equity, January 1, 1998Net income plus gains and losses not affecting retained earnings:$«252$«««8,601$«11,010$÷÷««(86)$««÷(860)$«÷«899$«19,816Net income6,328$«««6,328Gains and losses not affecting retained earnings (net of tax):Foreign currency translation adjustments(net of tax benefit of $45)Net unrealized losses on marketable6969securities (net of tax benefit of $36)(57)(57)Total gains and losses not affecting retained earningsSubtotal: Net income plus gains and losses not affecting retained earnings$«««6,340Cash dividends declared—common stock(814)(814Cash dividends declared—preferred stock(20)(20Common stock purchased and retired (113,993,636 shares)(556)(6,291)(6,847Preferred stock purchased and retired (51,250 shares)(5)(5)Common stock issued under employee plans (29,701,038 shares)709(1)708Purchases (9,100,678 shares) and sales (9,024,296 shares) of treasury stock under employee plans—net(71)(47)(118Fair value adjustment of employee benefits trust 1,002(994)8Tax effect—stock transactions365365Stockholders’ equity, December 31, 1998$«247$«10,121$«10,141$««««(133)$«(1,854)$««««911$«19,433) )))1999Net income plus gains and losses not affecting retained earnings:Net income7,712$«««7,712Gains and losses not affecting retained earnings (net of tax):Foreign currency translation adjustments(net of tax expense of $180)Net unrealized gains on marketable (546)(546)securities (net of tax expense of $456)796796Total gains and losses not affecting retained earningsSubtotal: Net income plus gains and losses not affecting retained earnings$«««7,962Cash dividends declared—common stock(859)(859Cash dividends declared—preferred stock(20)(20Treasury shares purchased, not retired (70,711,971 shares)(7,192)(7,192Common stock issued under employee plans (22,927,141 shares)741(1)740Purchases (6,418,975 shares) and sales (6,606,223 shares) of treasury stock under employee plans—net(95)(50)(145Fair value adjustment of employee benefits trust 318(308)10Increase due to shares issued by subsidiary3737Tax effect—stock transactions545545Stockholders’ equity, December 31, 1999	$«247$«11,762$«16,878$«(7,375)$«(2,162)$«1,161$«20,511))))page no.sixty-sixconsolidated statement of stockholders’ equityinternational business machines corporationand Subsidiary CompaniesAccumulatedGains andLosses Not	Employee	Affecting	Preferred	Common	Retained	Treasury	Benefits	Retained	(dollars in millions)	Stock	Stock	Earnings	Stock	Trust	Earnings	Total2000Stockholders’ equity, December 31, 1999 Net income plus gains and losses not affecting retained earnings:«$«247«$«11,762«$«16,878	«««$«««(7,375)««««$«(2,162)«$«1,161«$«20,511Net income8,093$«««8,093Gains and losses not affecting retained earnings (net of tax):Foreign currency translation adjustments(net of tax expense of $289)Net unrealized losses on marketable (531)(531)securities (net of tax benefit of $506)(925)(925)Total gains and losses not affecting retained earningsSubtotal: Net income plus gains and losses not affecting retained earnings$«««6,637Cash dividends declared—common stock(909)(909Cash dividends declared—preferred stock(20)(20Treasury shares purchased, not retired (58,867,226 shares)(6,431)(6,431Common stock issued under employee plans (17,275,350 shares)6151616Purchases (8,799,382 shares) and sales (9,074,212 shares) of treasury stock under employee plans—net(259)6(253Fair value adjustment of employee benefits trust (439)45011Increase due to shares remaining to be issued in acquisition4040Tax effect—stock transactions422422Stockholders’ equity, December 31, 2000$«247$«12,400$«23,784$«(13,800)$«(1,712)$«««(295)$«20,624))))The accompanying notes on pages 69 through 93 are an integral part of the financial statements.page no.sixty-sevenconsolidated statement of cash flowsinternational business machines corporationand Subsidiary Companies (dollars in millions)AT DECEMBER 31:200019991998Cash flow from operating activities:Net income $«8,093$«7,712$«6,328Adjustments to reconcile net income to net cash provided from operating activities:Depreciation4,5136,1594,475Amortization of software482426517Deferred income taxes29(713)(606)Gain on disposition of fixed and other assets(792)(4,791)(261Other changes that (used)/provided cash:Receivables(4,720)(1,677)(2,736Inventories(55)30173Other assets(643)(130)219Accounts payable2,245(3)362Other liabilities1222,827902Net cash provided from operating activities9,27410,1119,273Cash flow from investing activities:Payments for plant, rental machines and other property(5,616)(5,959)(6,520Proceeds from disposition of plant, rental machines and other property1,6191,207905Investment in software(565)(464)(250Purchases of marketable securities and other investments(1,079)(3,949)(4,211Proceeds from marketable securities and other investments1,3932,6163,945Proceeds from sale of the Global Network—4,880—Net cash used in investing activities(4,248)(1,669)(6,131Cash flow from financing activities:Proceeds from new debt9,6046,1337,567Short-term (repayments)/borrowings less than 90 days—net(1,400)276499Payments to settle debt(7,561)(7,510)(5,942Preferred stock transactions—net——(5)Common stock transactions—net(6,073)(6,645)(6,278Cash dividends paid(929)(879)(834Net cash used in financing activities(6,359)(8,625)(4,993Effect of exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents(147)(149)120Net change in cash and cash equivalents(1,480)(332)(1,731Cash and cash equivalents at January 15,0435,3757,106Cash and cash equivalents at December 31$«3,563$«5,043$«5,375Supplemental data:Cash paid during the year for:Income taxes$«2,697$«1,904$«1,929Interest$«1,447$«1,574$«1,605)))))))))))The accompanying notes on pages 69 through 93 are an integral part of the financial statements.page no.sixty-eight
notesA	SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIESPrinciples of Consolidation The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of International Business Machines Corporation and its controlled subsidiary companies, which in general are majority owned. Investments in business entities in which the company does not have control, but has the ability to exercise significant influence over operating and financial policies (generally 20-50 percent ownership), are accounted for by the equity method. Other investments are accounted for by the cost method. The accounting policy for other investments in securities is described on page 70 within Marketable Securities.Use of Estimates The preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts that are reported in the consolidated financial statements and accompanying disclosures. Although these estimates are based on management’s best knowledge of current events and actions that the company may undertake in the future, actual results may be different from the estimates.RevenueThe company recognizes revenue when it is realized or realizable and earned. The company considers revenue realized or realizable and earned when it has persuasive evidence of an arrangement, the product has been shipped or the services have been provided to the customer, the sales price is fixed or determinable and collectibility is reasonably assured. The company reduces revenue for estimated customer returns. In addition to the aforementioned general policy, the following are the specific revenue recognition policies for each major category of revenue. HARDWARERevenue from hardware sales or sales-type leases is recognized when the product is shipped to the customer and there are either no unfulfilled company obligations or any obligations will not affect the customer’s final acceptance of the arrangement. Any cost of these obligations is accrued when the corresponding revenue is recognized. Revenue from rentals and operating leases is recognized monthly as the fees accrue.SERVICES Revenue from time and material service contracts is recognized as the services are provided. Revenue from fixed price long-term service contracts is recognized over the contract term based on the percentage of services that are provided during the period compared with the total estimated services to be provided over the entire contract. Losses on fixed price contracts are recognized during the period in which the loss first becomes apparent. Revenue from maintenance is recognized over the contractual period or as the services are performed. Revenue in excess of billings on service contracts is recorded as unbilled receivables and is included in trade accounts receivable. Billings in excess of revenue that is recognized on service contracts are recorded as deferred income until the aforementioned revenue recognition criteria are met.SOFTWARERevenue from delivered elements of one-time charge licensed software is recognized at the inception of the license term, provided the company has vendor-specific objective evidence of the fair value of each undelivered element. Revenue is deferred for undelivered elements. Revenue is also deferred for the entire arrangement if vendor-specific objective evidence does not exist for each undelivered contract element. Examples of undelivered elements in which the timing of delivery is uncertain include contractual elements that give customers rights to any future upgrades at no additional charge, future maintenance that is provided within the overall price, and standard performance and function guarantees. The revenue that is deferred for any contract element is recognized when all of the revenue recognition criteria have been met for that element, which typically occurs within two to three years. Revenue from monthly software licenses is recognized on a subscription basis.FINANCINGRevenue from financing is recognized at level rates of return over the term of the lease or receivable. Selling, General and Administrative Expense Selling, general and administrative expense is charged to income as incurred. Expenses of promoting and selling products are classified as selling expense and include such items as advertising, sales commissions and travel. General and administrative expense includes such items as officers’ salaries, office supplies, taxes, insurance and office rental. In addition, general and administrative expense includes recurring other operating items such as gains and losses from sales and disposals of assets other than securities, licensing of intellectual property, amortization of goodwill and currency exchange gains/losses.Income Taxes page no. sixty-nineIncome tax expense is based on reported income before income taxes. Deferred income taxes reflect the effect of temporary differences between assets and liabilities that are recognized for financial reporting purposes and the amounts that are recognized for income tax purposes. These deferred taxes are measured by applying currently enacted tax laws. Valuation allowances are recognized to reduce the deferred tax assets to the amount that is more likely than not to be realized. In assessing the likelihood of realization, management considers estimates of future taxable income.Translation of Non-U.S. Currency Amounts Assets and liabilities of non-U.S. subsidiaries that operate in a local currency environment are translated to U.S. dollars at year-end exchange rates. Income and expense items are translated at weighted-average rates of exchange prevailing during the year. Translation adjustments are recorded in Accumulated gains and losses not affecting retained earnings within stockholders’ equity.    Inventories, plant, rental machines and other property, and other non-monetary assets and liabilities of non-U.S. subsidiaries and branches that operate in U.S. dollars, or whose economic environment is highly inflationary, are translated at approximate exchange rates prevailing when the company acquired the assets or liabilities. All other assets and liabilities are translated at year-end exchange rates. Cost of sales and depreciation are translated at historical exchange rates. All other income and expense items are translated at the weighted-average rates of exchange prevailing during the year. Gains and losses that result from translation are included in net income.Derivative/Financial InstrumentsIn the normal course of business, the company uses a variety of derivative financial instruments to manage currency exchange rate and interest rate risk. To qualify for hedge accounting, the company requires that the instruments are effective in reducing the risk exposure that they are designed to hedge. For instruments that are associated with the hedge of an anticipated transaction, hedge effectiveness criteria also require that it be probable that the underlying transaction will occur. Instruments that meet these hedging criteria are formally designated as hedges at the inception of the contract. When the terms of an underlying transaction are modified, or when the underlying hedged item ceases to exist, all changes in the fair value of the instrument are marked-tomarket with changes in value included in net income each period until the instrument matures. Those risk management instruments that do not meet the hedging criteria are marked-to-market each period. Refer to note K, “Financial Instruments,” on pages 76 and 77 for descriptions of the major risk management programs and classes of financial instruments used by the company, including the specific methods used to account for them.   In determining fair value of its financial instruments, the company uses a variety of methods and assumptions that are based on market conditions and risks existing at each balance sheet date. For the majority of financial instruments including most derivatives, long-term investments and long-term debt, standard market conventions and techniques such as discounted cash flow analysis, option pricing models, replacement cost and termination cost are used to determine fair value. Dealer quotes are used for the remaining financial instruments. All methods of assessing fair value result in a general approximation of value, and such value may never actually be realized.Cash Equivalents All highly liquid investments with a maturity of three months or less at date of purchase are carried at fair value and considered to be cash equivalents.Marketable Securities Marketable securities included in current assets represent securities with a maturity of less than one year. The company also has marketable securities, including non-equity method alliance investments, with a maturity of more than one year. These non-current investments are included in Investments and sundry assets. The company’s marketable securities, including certain non-equity method alliance investments, are considered available for sale and are reported at fair value with changes in unrealized gains and losses, net of applicable taxes, recorded in Accumulated gains and losses not affecting retained earnings within stockholders’ equity. Realized gains and losses are calculated based on the specific identification method. Other than temporary declines in market value from original cost are charged to net income in the period the loss occurs. All other investment securities not described above or in the Principles of Consolidation on page 69, primarily non-publicly traded securities, are accounted for using the cost method.InventoriesRaw materials, work in process and finished goods are stated at the lower of average cost or net realizable value.Customer Loan Receivablespage no. seventyGlobal Financing is one of many sources of funding from which customers can choose. Customer loan receivables, net of allowances, comprise almost entirely loans made by the company’s Global Financing segment, primarily to finance the purchase of the company’s software and services. Separate contractual relationships on these financing agreements are generally for terms ranging from one to three years requiring straight-line payments over the term. Therefore, these agreements do not represent extended payment terms. Each financing contract is priced independently at competitive market rates. An allowance for loan losses is established based upon management’s historical collection experience, adverse situations that may affect the customer’s ability to repay, estimated value of any underlying collateral and prevailing economic conditions. DepreciationPlant, rental machines and other property are carried at cost and depreciated over their estimated useful lives using the straight-line method.   The estimated useful lives of depreciable properties generally are as follows: buildings, 50 years; building equipment, 20 years; land improvements, 20 years; plant, laboratory and office equipment, 2 to 15 years; and computer equipment,1.5 to 5 years.Software CostsCosts that are related to the conceptual formulation and design of licensed programs are expensed as research and development. Also, for licensed programs, the company capitalizes costs that are incurred to produce the finished product after technological feasibility is established. The annual amortization of the capitalized amounts is the greater of the amount computed based on the estimated revenue distribution over the products’ revenue-producing lives, or the straight-line method, and is applied over periods ranging up to three years. The company performs periodic reviews to ensure that unamortized program costs remain recoverable from future revenue. The company charges costs to support or service licensed programs against net income as the costs are incurred.   The company capitalizes certain costs that are incurred to purchase or to create and implement internal use computer software, which include software coding, installation, testing and data conversion. Capitalized costs are amortized on a straight-line basis over two years.   The company capitalizes costs incurred during certain phases of internal Web site development. Capitalized costs are amortized on a straight-line basis over two years.Retirement Plans and Nonpension Postretirement Benefits Current service costs of retirement plans and postretirement health care and life insurance benefits are accrued in the period. Prior service costs that result from amendments to the plans are amortized over the average remaining service period of the employees expected to receive benefits. Unrecognized net gains and losses that exceed 10 percent of the greater of the projected benefit obligation or the marketrelated value of plan assets are amortized over the average remaining service life of employees expected to receive benefits. Experience gains and losses, as well as the effects of changes in actuarial assumptions and plan provisions, are amortized over the average future service period of employees. See note V, “Retirement Plans,” on pages 85 through 88 and note W, “Nonpension Postretirement Benefits,” on pages 88 and 89 for further discussion. Goodwill Goodwill is amortized to expense on a straight-line basis over the periods estimated to benefit, generally not to exceed five years. The company performs reviews to evaluate the recoverability of goodwill and takes into account events or circumstances that warrant revised estimates of useful lives or that indicate that an impairment exists.Common Stock Common stock refers to the $.20 par value capital stock as designated in the company’s Certificate of Incorporation. Treasury stock is accounted for using the cost method. When treasury stock is reissued, the value is computed and recorded using a weighted-average basis.Earnings Per Share of Common Stock Earnings per share of common stock—basic is computed by dividing Net income applicable to common stockholders by the weighted-average number of common shares outstanding for the period. Earnings per share of common stock — assuming dilution reflects the maximum potential dilution that could occur if securities or other contracts to issue common stock were exercised or converted into common stock and would then share in the net income of the company. See note S, “Earnings Per Share of Common Stock,” on page 83 for further discussion.B	ACCOUNTING CHANGESStandards Implemented The company implemented new accounting standards in 2000, 1999 and 1998. These standards do not have a material effect on the financial position or results of operations of the company.   In 2000, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued Interpretation (FIN) No. 44, “Accounting for Certain Transactions Involving Stock Compensation, an interpretation of Accounting Principles Board Opinion No. 25.” The requirements of FIN No. 44 are either not applicable to the company or are already consistent with the company’s existing accounting policies.   Effective July 1, 2000, the company adopted Emerging Issues Task Force (EITF) Issue No. 00-2, “Accounting for Web Site Development Costs.” See note A, “Significant Accounting Policies” on pages 69 through 71 for a description of the company’s policies for Web site development costs.page no.seventy-one   Pursuant to the Securities and Exchange Commission’s Staff Accounting Bulletin (SAB) No. 101, “Revenue Recognition in Financial Statements,” the company has reviewed its accounting policies for the recognition of revenue. SAB No. 101 was required to be implemented in fourth quarter 2000. SAB No. 101 provides guidance on applying generally accepted accounting principles to revenue recognition in financial statements. The company’s policies for revenue recognition are consistent with the views expressed within SAB No. 101. See note A, “Significant Accounting Policies,” on pages 69 through 71 for a description of the company’s policies for revenue recognition.   Effective January 1, 1999, the company adopted American Institute of Certified Public Accountants (AICPA) Statement of Position (SOP) No. 98-1, “Accounting for the Costs of Computer Software Developed or Obtained for Internal Use.” The SOP requires a company to capitalize certain costs that are incurred to purchase or to create and implement internal use computer software. See note A, “Significant Accounting Policies” on pages 69 through 71 for a description of the company’s policies for internal use software.Effective December 31, 1998, the company adoptedStatement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 131, “Disclosures about Segments of an Enterprise and Related Information,” which establishes standards for reporting operating segments and disclosures about products and services, geographic areas and major customers. See note X, “Segment Information,” on pages 89 through 93 for the company’s segment information.   Effective December 31, 1998, the company adopted SFAS No. 132, “Employers’ Disclosures about Pensions and Other Postretirement Benefits,” which establishes standard disclosures for defined benefit pension and postretirement benefit plans. See note V, “Retirement Plans,” on pages 85 through 88 and note W, “Nonpension Postretirement Benefits,” on pages 88 and 89 for the disclosures.   Effective January 1, 1998, the company adopted SFAS No. 130, “Reporting Comprehensive Income,” which establishes standards for reporting and displaying in a full set of general-purpose financial statements the gains and losses not affecting retained earnings. The disclosures required by SFAS No. 130 are presented in the Accumulated gains and losses not affecting retained earnings section in the Consolidated Statement of Stockholders’ Equity on pages 66 and 67 and in note M, “Stockholders’ Equity Activity,” on page 79.Effective January 1, 1998, the company adopted theAICPA SOP No. 97-2, “Software Revenue Recognition.” This SOP provides guidance on revenue recognition for software transactions. See note A, “Significant Accounting Policies” on pages 69 through 71 for a description of the company’s policy for software revenue recognition. New Standards to be Implemented Effective January 1, 2001, the company adopted SFAS No. 140, “Accounting for Transfers and Servicing of Financial Assets and Extinguishments of Liabilities—a replacement of SFAS No. 125.” This statement provides accounting and reporting standards for transfers and servicing of financial assets and extinguishments of liabilities and revises the accounting standards for securitizations and transfers of financial assets and collateral. Management does not expect the adoption to have a material effect on the company’s results of operations and financial position. This standard also requires new disclosures in 2000. Such requirements were not applicable to the company.   On January 1, 2001, the company adopted SFAS No. 133, “Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities,” as amended by SFAS No. 138, “Accounting for Certain Derivative Instruments and Certain Hedging Activities.” SFAS No. 133, as amended, establishes accounting and reporting standards for derivative instruments. Specifically, SFAS No. 133 requires an entity to recognize all derivatives as either assets or liabilities in the statement of financial position and to measure those instruments at fair value. Additionally, the fair value adjustments will affect either stockholders’ equity or net income depending on whether the derivative instrument qualifies as a hedge for accounting purposes and, if so, the nature of the hedging activity. As of January 1, 2001, the adoption of the new standard results in a net-of-tax increase of $219 million to Accumulated gains and losses not affecting retained earnings in the Consolidated Statement of Stockholders’ Equity and a charge of $6 million to Cumulative effect of adopting accounting principle, net of tax in the Consolidated Statement of Earnings. C COMMON STOCK SPLITOn April 27, 1999, the stockholders of the company approved amendments to the Certificate of Incorporation to increase the number of authorized shares of common stock from 1,875.0 million to 4,687.5 million, which was required to effect a two-for-one stock split approved by the company’s Board of Directors on January 26, 1999. In addition, the amendment reduced the par value of the common shares from $.50 to $.20 per share. Common stockholders of record at the close of business on May 10, 1999, received one additional share for each share held. All share and per share data prior to the second quarter of 1999 presented in the consolidated financial statements and notes thereto reflect the two-for-one stock split. D ACQUISITIONS/DIVESTITURESAcquisitions2000In 2000, the company completed nine acquisitions at a cost of approximately $511 million. page no.seventy-two   The largest acquisition was LGS Group Inc. (LGS). The company acquired all the outstanding stock of LGS in April for $190 million. LGS offers services ranging from application development to information technology consulting.   The following table presents the allocation of the purchase price of the 2000 acquisitions.(dollars in millions)	LGS	OtherPurchase price$«190$«321Tangible net assets 3168Identifiable intangible assets—36GoodwillIn-process research«159«««220and developmentDeferred tax liabilities related to identifiable—9intangible assets«—«««(12)1999In 1999, the company completed 17 acquisitions at a cost of approximately $1,551 million. Three of the major acquisitions for the year are detailed in the following discussion.   On September 24, 1999, the company acquired all of the outstanding capital stock of Sequent Computer Systems, Inc., an acknowledged leader in systems based on NUMA (non-uniform memory access) architecture, for approximately $837 million.    On September 29, 1999, the company acquired all of the outstanding stock of Mylex Corporation, a leading developer of technology for moving, storing, protecting and managing data in desktop and networked environments, for approximately $259 million.    On September 27, 1999, the company acquired all the outstanding stock of DASCOM, Inc., an industry leader in Web-based and enterprise-security technology, for approximately $115 million.   The following table presents the allocation of the purchase price of the 1999 acquisitions.(dollars in millions)	Sequent	Mylex	DASCOM	OtherPurchase priceTangible net assets/ $«837*$«259$«115$«340(liabilities)Identifiable intangible 382«67(17)«45assets187«3513«—Current technology«8726«199GoodwillIn-process research 192*«145«92286and developmentDeferred tax liabilities related to identifiable85719«—intangible assets(96)(21)«(11)—* In 2000, the total purchase price and goodwill numbers were adjusted primarily for increased stock options being exercised versus being converted to IBM options and at a higher gain per option than originally assumed.1998In 1998, the company completed nine acquisitions at a cost of approximately $828 million. In January 1998, the company acquired all of the outstanding stock of Software Artistry, Inc., a leading provider of both consolidated service desk and customer relationship management solutions for distributed enterprise environments for approximately $203 million. In 2000, the company sold most of Software Artistry, representing the part of the business that is no longer considered strategic. In March 1998, the company acquired all of the outstanding stock of CommQuest Technologies, Inc., a company that designs and markets advanced semiconductors for wireless communications applications such as cellular phones and satellite communications for approximately $183 million.    The following table presents the allocation of the purchase price of the 1998 acquisitions.Software(dollars in millions)	Artistry	CommQuest	OtherPurchase price«$«203$«183$«442Tangible net assets «222«188Identifiable intangible assets«2479«—Current technology«46«12—GoodwillIn-process research 66«81254and developmentDeferred tax liabilities related to identifiable7041«—intangible assets(25)«(32)—All of these acquisitions were accounted for as purchase transactions, and accordingly, the assets and liabilities of the acquired entities were recorded at their estimated fair value at the date of acquisition. The effects of these acquisitions on the company’s consolidated financial statements were not material. Hence, the company has not provided pro forma financial information as if the companies had combined at the beginning of the current period or the immediately preceding period.   The tangible net assets comprise primarily cash, accounts receivable, land, buildings and leasehold improvements. The identifiable intangible assets comprise primarily patents, trademarks, customer lists, assembled workforce, employee agreements and leasehold interests. The identifiable intangible assets and goodwill will be amortized on a straight-line basis, generally not to exceed five years.page no.seventy-three   In connection with these acquisitions, the company recorded pre-tax charges of $9 million, $111 million and $111 million for acquired in-process research and development (IPR&D) for 2000, 1999 and 1998, respectively. At the date of the acquisitions, the IPR&D projects had not yet reached technological feasibility and had no alternative future uses. The value of the IPR&D reflects the relative value and contribution of the acquired research and development to the company’s existing research or product lines. DivestituresDuring 1999, the company completed the sale of its Global Network business to AT&T for $4,991 million. More than 5,300 IBM employees joined AT&T as a result of these sales of operations in 71 countries.   During 1999, the company recognized a pre-tax gain of $4,057 million ($2,495 million after tax, or $1.33 per diluted common share). The net gain reflects dispositions of plant, rental machines and other property of $410 million, other assets of $182 million and contractual obligations of $342 million. The gain was recorded as a reduction of Selling, general and administrative expense in the Consolidated Statement of Earnings. E	INVENTORIES(dollars in millions)AT DECEMBER 31:20001999Finished goods$«1,446$«1,162Work in process and raw materials3,3193,706Total$«4,765$«4,868F	FINANCING RECEIVABLES The following table includes receivables resulting from leasing activities and installment loans to customers, as well as commercial financing activities primarily to dealers, arising from the Global Financing business. See note X, “Segment Information,” on pages 89 through 93 for information on the total assets of the Global Financing segment, which also includes cash, rental machine fixed assets, intercompany amounts and other. (dollars in millions)AT DECEMBER 31:20001999Short term:Commercial financing receivables$«««6,851$«««6,062Customer loan receivables4,0653,764Installment payment receivables1,2211,110Net investment in sales-type leases6,5686,220Total short-term financing receivables$«18,705$«17,156Long term:Commercial financing receivables$««««««779$«««0,030Customer loan receivables4,3594,219Installment payment receivables574848Net investment in sales-type leases7,5967,981Total long-term financing receivables$«13,308$«13,078Net investment in sales-type leases is for leases that relate principally to IBM equipment and is generally for terms ranging from two to five years. Net investment in sales-type leases includes unguaranteed residual values of approximately $751 million and $737 million at December 31, 2000 and 1999, respectively, and is reflected net of unearned income at those dates of approximately $1,500 million and $1,600 million, respectively. Scheduled maturities of minimum lease payments outstanding at December 31, 2000, expressed as a percentage of the total, are approximately as follows: 2001, 50 percent; 2002, 30 percent; 2003, 14 percent; 2004, 4 percent; and 2005 and beyond, 2 percent. G	PLANT, RENTAL MACHINES AND OTHER PROPERTY (dollars in millions)AT DECEMBER 31:20001999Land and land improvements$««««««896$«««1,026Buildings and building improvements9,90410,395Plant, laboratory and office equipment22,35422,50333,15433,924Less: Accumulated depreciation18,85719,26814,29714,656Rental machines5,3015,692Less: Accumulated depreciation2,8842,7582,4172,934Total$«16,714$«17,590H	INVESTMENTS AND SUNDRY ASSETS(dollars in millions)AT DECEMBER 31:20001999Deferred taxes$«««2,968$«««2,654Prepaid pension assets 6,8065,636Alliance investments:Equity method 629595Other9091,439Goodwill (less accum. amortization)8481,045Marketable securities—non-current 171113Software 782663Other assets1,3341,527Total$«14,447$«13,672I	SALE AND SECURITIZATION OF RECEIVABLESpage no.seventy-fourThe company manages assets of $136 million and $273 million from the securitization of loans, leases and trade receivables, at year-end 2000 and 1999, respectively. The company did not sell any receivables in 2000, and therefore had no cash proceeds for the year. Cash proceeds from the sale and securitization of these receivables and assets were $1,311 million in 1999. No significant gain or loss resulted from these transactions. The company expects recourse amounts associated with the aforementioned sale and securitization activities to be minimal and has adequate reserves to cover potential losses.J	BORROWINGSShort-term debt (dollars in millions)AT DECEMBER 31:20001999Commercial paper$«««3,521$«««5,074Short-term loans3,9753,351Long-term debt: Current maturities2,7095,805Total$«10,205$«14,230The weighted-average interest rates for commercial paper at December 31, 2000 and 1999, were 6.7 percent and 5.9 percent, respectively. The weighted-average interest rates for short-term loans at December 31, 2000 and 1999, were2.9 percent and 4.0 percent, respectively. Long-term debt (dollars in millions)AT DECEMBER 31:Maturities20001999 *U.S. Dollars: Debentures:6.22%2027$««««««500$««««««5006.5%20287007007.0%20256006007.0%20451501507.125%20968508507.5%20135505508.375%2019750750Notes: 6.3% average2001-20142,9334,191Medium-term note program: 5.8% average2001-20144,3056,230Other: 6.8% average2001-20121,0921,61812,43016,139Other currencies (average interest rate at December 31, 2000, in parentheses):Euros (5.3%)2002-20053,042—Japanese yen (1.4%)2001-20144,8453,141Canadian dollars (5.7%)2002-2005302316Swiss francs (3.5%)2001-200323178Other (8.1%)2001-201427529521,12519,969Less: Net unamortized discount454021,08019,929Less: Current maturities2,7095,805Total$«18,371$«14,124* Reclassified to conform with 2000 presentation.Annual maturities in millions of dollars on long-term debt outstanding at December 31, 2000, are as follows: 2001, $2,709; 2002, $5,405; 2003, $3,364; 2004, $763; 2005, $1,873; 2006 and beyond, $7,011. Interest on DebtInterest paid and accrued on borrowings of the company and its subsidiaries was $1,449 million in 2000, $1,475 million in 1999 and $1,585 million in 1998. Of these amounts, the company capitalized $20 million in 2000, $23 million in 1999 and $28 million in 1998. Of the remainder, the company charged $717 million in 2000, $727 million in 1999 and $713 million in 1998 to Interest expense on the Consolidated Statement of Earnings and charged $712 million in 2000, $725 million in 1999 and $844 million in 1998 to Cost of Global Financing in the Consolidated Statement of Earnings. Refer to the table and related discussion on page 92 in note X, “Segment Information,” for the total interest expense of the Global Financing segment.    The decrease in total interest in 2000 versus 1999 was due primarily to lower average interest rates and a decline in average debt outstanding during 2000. The decrease in total interest in 1999 versus 1998 was due primarily to lower average interest rates, partially offset by an increase in average debt outstanding during 1999. The average effective interest rate for total debt was 5.0 percent, 5.1 percent and 5.7 percent in 2000, 1999 and 1998, respectively. These rates include the results of currency and interest rate swaps applied to the debt previously described.Lines of CreditThe company maintains a $10.0 billion global credit facility. The company’s other committed and uncommitted lines of credit were $4.7 billion and $5.5 billion at December 31, 2000 and 1999, respectively. Interest rates and other terms of borrowing under these lines of credit vary from country to country depending on local market conditions at the time of the borrowing.page no.seventy-five(dollars in billions)AT DECEMBER 31:20001999Unused linesFrom the global credit facility$«««9.1$«««8.6From other committed and uncommitted lines4.14.5Total unused lines of credit$«13.2$«13.1K	FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTSThe company maintains on- and off-balance sheet portfolios of financial instruments.Financial Instruments On-Balance Sheet (excluding derivatives)Cash and cash equivalents, marketable securities, notes and other accounts receivable and other investments are financial assets with carrying values that approximate fair value. Accounts payable, other accrued expenses and liabilities, and short-term and long-term debt are financial liabilities with carrying values that approximate fair value.    The following table summarizes the company’s marketable securities, all of which are considered available for sale, and alliance investments.MARKETABLE SECURITIES*Fair Value(dollars in millions)AT DECEMBER 31:20001999Current marketable securities:U.S. government securities$««««««—$÷÷÷15Time deposits and other obligations153746Non-U.S. government securities and other fixed-term obligations627Total$««««159$««««788Marketable securities—non-current:**Time deposits and other obligations$««««163$÷÷105Non-U.S. government securities and other fixed-term obligations88Total$««««171$÷÷113Non-equity method alliance investments**$««««909$«1,439* Gross unrealized gains (before taxes) on marketable securities and alliance investments were $47 million and $1,310 million at December 31, 2000 and 1999, respectively. Gross unrealized losses (before taxes) on marketable securities and alliance investments were $175 million and $7 million at December 31, 2000 and 1999, respectively. See note M, “Stockholders’ Equity Activity,” on page 79 for accumulated and net change in unrealized gains and losses on marketable securities.** Included within Investments and sundry assets on the Consolidated Statement ofFinancial Position. (See note H, “Investments and Sundry Assets,” on page 74.) Financial Instruments Off-Balance Sheet (excluding derivatives)The company has guaranteed certain loans and financial commitments of its affiliates. The approximate amount of these financial guarantees was $0.4 billion and $1.2 billion at December 31, 2000 and 1999, respectively.    The company extended lines of credit, of which the unused amounts were $4.2 billion and $4.5 billion at December 31, 2000 and 1999, respectively. A portion of these amounts was available to the company’s dealers to support their working capital needs.   The company enters into contracts that effectively provide the company with committed future borrowings in select foreign currencies. The aggregate amount of these contracts was $9.0 billion and $6.4 billion at December 31, 2000 and 1999, respectively. The terms of these contracts generally are less than eighteen months. Foreign exchange gains and losses associated with these contracts are recorded in net income as they are realized. These amounts have not been and are not expected to be material to the company’s financial results.Derivatives and HedgingThe company operates in approximately 40 functional currencies and is a significant lender and a borrower in the global financial markets. In the normal course of business, the company is exposed to the impact of interest rate changes and foreign currency fluctuations. The company limits these risks by following established risk management policies and procedures including the use of derivatives and, where cost-effective, financing with debt in the currencies in which assets are denominated. For interest rate exposures, derivatives are primarily used to align rate movements between interest rates associated with the company’s lease and other financial assets and interest rates associated with its financing debt and to manage the related cost of debt. For currency exposures, derivatives are used to limit the effects of foreign exchange rate fluctuations on financial results.   The company does not use derivatives for trading or speculative purposes, nor is it a party to leveraged derivatives. Further, the company has a policy of only entering into contracts with carefully selected major financial institutions based upon their credit ratings and other factors and maintains strict dollar and term limits that correspond to the institution’s credit rating. The company’s current credit exposure under these agreements is limited to the fair value of instruments with a positive fair value at the reporting date. When viewed in conjunction with the underlying and offsetting exposure that the derivatives are designed to hedge, the company has not sustained a material loss from these instruments nor does it anticipate any material adverse effect on its net income or financial position in the future from the use of derivatives.page no.seventy-six   In its hedging programs, the company employs the use of options, forwards, interest rate and currency swaps, caps, floors or a combination thereof depending upon the underlying exposure. A description of the major hedging programs follows:DEBT RISK MANAGEMENT The company issues debt in the global capital markets, principally to fund its Global Financing lease and loan portfolio. Access to cost-effective financing can result in interest rate and/or currency mismatches with the underlying assets. To manage these mismatches and to reduce overall interest cost, the company uses interest-rate and currency instruments, principally swaps, to convert a portion of its fixed-rate debt into variable-rate debt and to convert a portion of its variable-rate debt to fixed-rate debt. Interest rate and currency rate differentials that arise under these swap contracts are recognized in interest expense over the life of the contracts. The resulting cost of funds is usually lower than that which would have been available if debt with matching characteristics was issued directly. The weightedaverage remaining maturity of these swaps is approximately six years.ANTICIPATED ROYALTIES AND INTERCOMPANY TRANSACTIONS The company’s operations generate significant non-functional currency intercompany payments for royalties and goods and services among the company’s non-U.S. subsidiaries and with the parent company. In anticipation of these foreign currency cash flows and in view of the volatility of the currency markets, the company selectively employs foreign currency contracts to manage its currency risk. The terms of these instruments are generally less than eighteen months, commensurate with the underlying hedged anticipated cash flows. The effects of these instruments are reported in net income when the underlying transaction occurs.   For purchased options that hedge qualifying anticipated transactions, gains and losses are deferred and recognized in net income in the same period that the underlying transaction occurs, expires or otherwise is terminated. At December 31, 2000 and 1999, there were no material deferred gains or losses. The premiums associated with entering into these option contracts generally are amortized over the life of the options and are not material to the company’s results. Unamortized premiums are recorded in prepaid assets.Gains and losses on purchased options that are intended to hedge anticipated transactions and do not qualify for hedge accounting are recorded in net income as they occur and are not material to the company’s results. Similarly, gains and losses on written options are recorded in net income as they occur and are not material to the company’s results.SUBSIDIARY CASH AND FOREIGN CURRENCY ASSET/LIABILITY MANAGEMENT The company uses its Global Treasury Centers to manage the cash of its subsidiaries. These centers principally use currency swaps to convert cash flows in a cost-effective manner, predominantly for the company’s European subsidiaries. In addition, the company uses foreign exchange forward contracts to hedge, on a net basis, the foreign currency exposure of a portion of the company’s non-functional currency assets and liabilities. The terms of these forward and swap contracts are generally less than one year. The interest rate differentials of these instruments are generally recognized in interest expense over the life of the contracts.LONG TERM INVESTMENTS IN FOREIGN SUBSIDIARIES (“NET INVESTMENT”) A significant portion of the company’s foreign denominated debt portfolio is designated as a hedge to reduce the volatility in stockholders’ equity caused by changes in foreign exchange rates in the functional currency of major foreign subsidiaries with respect to the U.S. dollar. The company also uses currency swaps and other foreign currency contracts for this risk management purpose. The currency effects of these hedges are reflected in the Accumulated gains and losses not affecting retained earnings section of stockholders’ equity thereby offsetting a portion of the translation of the net foreign assets.At December 31, 2000	Notional	Carrying	FairAt December 31, 1999NotionalCarryingFair(dollars in millions)	Value	Value	Value *ValueValueValue *Derivative financial instruments$«18,873	$«(21)	$«178$«31,535$«(198)$«(437)Amounts in parentheses are liabilities.* The estimated fair value of derivatives both on- and off-balance sheet at December 31, 2000 and 1999, comprises assets of $393 million and $616 million, respectively, and liabilities of $215 million and $1,053 million, respectively.page no.seventy-seven   The following table summarizes the notional value, carrying value and fair value of the company’s derivative financial instruments, principally interest rate and currency contracts, both on- and off-balance sheet. The notional value at December 31provides an indication of the extent of the company’s involvement in these instruments at that time, but does not represent exposure to credit, interest rate or foreign exchange rate market risks.L	OTHER LIABILITIES (dollars in millions)AT DECEMBER 31:20001999Nonpension postretirement benefits—U.S. and non-U.S. employees$«««7,128$«««7,420Deferred income taxes1,6231,354Deferred income1,2661,081Restructuring actions8541,162Executive compensation accruals769746Post-employment/pre-retirement liability585710Environmental accruals226228Other 497581Total$«12,948$«13,282Post-employment/pre-retirement liabilities represent workforce accruals for contractually obligated payments to employees terminated in the ongoing course of business other than those accruals presented separately above.    The company executed restructuring actions through 1993 and special actions in 1999. The non-current liabilities relating to these actions are included in restructuring actions in the table above. See note Q, “1999 Actions,” on pages 81 and 82 for more information regarding the 1999 actions. The reconciliation of the December 31, 1999 to 2000 balances of the current and non-current liabilities for restructuring actions are presented below. The current liabilities presented in the table are included in Other accrued expenses and liabilities on the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position.December 31,December 31,1999Other2000(dollars in millions)BalancePaymentsAdjustments *BalanceCurrent:Workforce$««««188$«178$««138$«148Space1441267391MiCRUSInvestment152152——Total$««««484$«456$««211$«239Non-current:Workforce$«0,659$«««—$«(189)$«470Space503—(119)384Total$«1,162$«««—$«(308)$«854* Principally represents reclassification of non-current to current and currency translation adjustments.   The workforce accruals relate to terminated employees who are no longer working for the company, but who were granted annual payments to supplement their state pensions in certain countries. These contractually required payments will continue until the former employee dies.    The space accruals are for ongoing obligations to pay rent for vacant space that could not be sublet or space that was sublet at rates lower than the committed lease arrangement. The length of these obligations varies by lease with the longest extending through 2012.    The company employs extensive internal environmental protection programs that primarily are preventive in nature. The cost of these ongoing programs is recorded as incurred.   The company continues to participate in environmental assessments and cleanups at a number of locations, including operating facilities, previously owned facilities and Superfund sites. The company accrues for all known environmental liabilities when it becomes probable that the company will incur cleanup costs, and those costs can reasonably be estimated. In addition, estimated environmental costs that are associated with post-closure activities (for example, the removal and restoration of chemical storage facilities and monitoring) are accrued when the decision is made to close a facility. The total amounts accrued, including amounts classified as current on the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position, that do not reflect actual or anticipated insurance recoveries, were $248 million and $240 million at December 31, 2000 and 1999, respectively. page no.seventy-eight   The amounts accrued do not cover sites that are in the preliminary stages of investigation; that is, for which neither the company’s percentage of responsibility nor the extent of cleanup required has been identified. Estimated environmental costs are not expected to materially affect the financial position or results of the company’s operations in future periods. However, estimates of future costs are subject to change due to protracted cleanup periods and changing environmental remediation regulations. M	STOCKHOLDERS’ EQUITY ACTIVITYStock Repurchases From time to time, the Board of Directors authorizes the company to repurchase IBM common stock. The company repurchased 61,041,820 common shares at a cost of $6.7 billion and 71,618,800 common shares at a cost of $7.3 billion in 2000 and 1999, respectively. In 2000 and in 1999, the company did not retire the shares it repurchased. In 2000 and 1999, the company issued 2,174,594 and 906,829 treasury shares, respectively, as a result of exercises of stock options by employees of certain recently acquired businesses and by non-U.S. employees. At December 31, 2000, approximately $2.9 billion of Board authorized repurchases remained. The company plans to purchase shares on the open market from time to time, depending on market conditions.    In 1995, the Board of Directors authorized the company to repurchase all of its outstanding Series A 7-1⁄2 percent callable preferred stock. The company did not repurchase any shares in 2000 or in 1999. The company plans to purchase the outstanding shares on the open market and in private transactions from time to time, depending on market conditions. There were 2,546,011 shares outstanding at December 31, 2000 and 1999.Employee Benefits Trust Effective November 1, 1997, the company created an employee benefits trust to which it contributed 20 million shares of treasury stock. The company is authorized to instruct the trustee to sell shares from time to time and to use proceeds from those sales, and any dividends paid on the contributed stock, toward the partial satisfaction of the company’s future obligations under certain of its compensation and benefits plans. The shares held in trust are not considered outstanding for purposes of calculating earnings per share until they are committed to be released. The trustee will vote the shares in accordance with its fiduciary duties. As of December 31, 2000 and 1999, the company had not committed any shares to be released.   At December 31, 1998, the company began adjusting its valuation of the employee benefits trust to fair value. These adjustments affect only line items within stockholders’ equity; not total stockholders’ equity or net income.Accumulated Gains and Losses Not Affecting Retained Earnings*NetTotalUnrealizedGains/(Losses)ForeignGains/(Losses)Not AffectingCurrencyon MarketableRetained(dollars in millions)ItemsSecuritiesEarningsJanuary 1, 1998$««791$«108$««««899Change for period69(57)12December 31, 199886051911Change for period(546)796250December 31, 19993148471,161Change for period(531)«(925)«««(1,456December 31, 2000$«(217)$««(78)$«««(295))* Net of tax.NET CHANGE IN UNREALIZED GAINS/(LOSSES) ON MARKETABLE SECURITIES (NET OF TAX)(dollars in millions)FOR THE YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31:20001999Net unrealized (losses)/gains arising during the period$«(810)$«943Less net gains included in net income for the period115147Net change in net unrealized (losses)/ gains on marketable securities$«(925)$«796Unrealized losses arising in 2000 relate primarily to previous unrealized gains from original cost occurring in prior years.N CONTINGENCIESThe company is subject to a variety of claims and suits that arise from time to time in the ordinary course of its business, including actions with respect to contracts, intellectual property, product liability and environmental matters. The company is a defendant and/or third-party defendant in a number of cases in which claims have been filed by current and former employees, independent contractors, estate representatives, offspring and relatives of employees seeking damages for wrongful death and personal injuries allegedly caused by exposure to chemicals in various of the company’s facilities from 1964 to the present. The company believes that plaintiffs’ claims are legally baseless and without factual support. The company will defend itself vigorously.page no.seventy-nine   While it is not possible to predict the ultimate outcome of the matters discussed above, the company believes that any losses associated with any of such matters will not have a material effect on the company’s business, financial condition or results of operations.O TAXES(dollars in millions)FOR THE YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31:200019991998Income before income taxes:U.S. operations$«««5,871$«««5,892$«2,960Non-U.S. operations5,6635,8656,080$«11,534$«11,757$«9,040The provision for income taxes by geographic operations is as follows:U.S. operations«$«««1,692$«««2,005$««««991Non-U.S. operations1,7492,0401,721Total provision for income taxes$«««3,441$«««4,045$«2,712The components of the provision for income taxes by taxing jurisdiction are as follows:(dollars in millions)FOR THE YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31:200019991998U.S. federal:Current$««««613$«1,759$«1,117Deferred286(427)(4758991,332642U.S. state and local:Current192272139Deferred477(260)239279(121)Non-U.S.:Current2,6072,7272,062Deferred(304)(293)1292,3032,4342,191Total provision for income taxes3,4414,0452,712Provision for social security, real estate, personal property and other taxes2,7662,8312,859Total provision for taxes$«6,207$«6,876$«5,571)The effect of tax law changes on deferred tax assets and liabilities did not have a significant effect on the company’s effective tax rate. The significant components of activities that gave rise to deferred tax assets and liabilities that are recorded on the balance sheet were as follows:DEFERRED TAX ASSETS(dollars in millions)AT DECEMBER 31:20001999Employee benefits$«««3,673$«««3,737Alternative minimum tax credits1,4241,244Bad debt, inventory and warranty reserves9531,093Capitalized research and development848880Deferred income837870General business credits655605Infrastructure reduction charges617918Foreign tax loss carryforwards489406Equity alliances437377Depreciation376326State and local tax loss carryforwards246227Intracompany sales and services149153Other2,8092,763Gross deferred tax assets13,51313,599Less: Valuation allowance572647Net deferred tax assets$«12,941$«12,952DEFERRED TAX LIABILITIES(dollars in millions)AT DECEMBER 31:20001999Retirement benefits$«««3,447$«««3,092Sales-type leases2,4502,914Depreciation1,1791,237Software costs deferred306250Other1,8362,058Gross deferred tax liabilities$«««9,218$«««9,551The valuation allowance at December 31, 2000, principally applies to certain state and local, and foreign tax loss carryforwards that, in the opinion of management, are more likely than not to expire before the company can use them.    A reconciliation of the company’s effective tax rate to the statutory U.S. federal tax rate is as follows:FOR THE YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31:200019991998Statutory rate35%35%35Foreign tax differential(6)(2)(6State and local111Valuation allowance related items(1)—(1)Other1—1Effective rate30%34%30%)page no. eighty%   For tax return purposes, the company has available tax credit carryforwards of approximately $2,079 million, of which $1,424 million have an indefinite carryforward period and the remainder begin to expire in 2004. The company also has state and local, and foreign tax loss carryforwards, the tax effect of which is $735 million. Most of these carryforwards are available for more than 5 years or have an indefinite carryforward period.   Undistributed earnings of non-U.S. subsidiaries included in consolidated retained earnings were $15,472 million at December 31, 2000, $14,900 million at December 31, 1999, and $13,165 million at December 31, 1998. These earnings, which reflect full provision for non-U.S. income taxes, are indefinitely reinvested in non-U.S. operations or will be remitted substantially free of additional tax. P ADVERTISINGAdvertising expense, which includes media, agency and promotional expenses, was $1,746 million, $1,758 million and $1,681 million in 2000, 1999 and 1998, respectively, and is recorded in Selling, general and administrative expense.Q 1999 ACTIONSTechnology Group ActionsDuring 1999, the company implemented actions that were designed to better align the operations and cost structure of IBM’s Technology Group with that group’s strategic direction in view of the competitive environment, overcapacity in the industry and resulting pricing pressures. The actions affected the Microelectronics Division (MD), the Storage Technology Division (STD)—previously known as the Storage Systems Division—and the Networking Hardware Division (NHD) of the company’s Technology Group. The company completed these actions during the first half of 2000.    In total, the Technology Group actions resulted in a charge of $1,690 million ($1,366 million after tax, or $.73 per diluted common share) as described below and in the table on page 82.    The actions within MD addressed a prolonged, industrywide downturn in memory chip prices that affected the results of the company’s semiconductor business. They were intended to enable the company to (1) reconfigure the assets and capabilities of the division to allow more focus on the faster-growth, higher-margin custom logic portion of the MD business and (2) enhance its ability to more cost-effectively manage a partnership agreement that was formed to produce complementary metal oxide semiconductor (CMOS) based logic components.   The company reduced its internal dynamic random access memory (DRAM) capacity by converting its manufacturing facility in Essonnes, France, from DRAM to custom logic. The company effected that conversion through a joint venture with Infineon Technologies, a subsidiary of Siemens AG. Also related to DRAM, the company executed contracts with various banks and other financing institutions to sell and lease back test equipment.    The company also participated in a 50/50 joint venture (Dominion Semiconductor Company) with Toshiba Corporation to produce DRAM memory components. The company entered into an agreement whereby Toshiba assumed the company’s interest in Dominion effective December 1, 2000. The company participated in the capacity output of Dominion at a significantly reduced rate in the interim period. The company held a majority interest in a joint venture(MiCRUS) with Cirrus Logic Inc. (the partner) to produce CMOS-based logic components for IBM and its partner based on contractual capacity agreements. The partner indicated that it would not require the output capacity that was provided for in the partnership agreement. The company determined that the most cost-effective manner in which to address the partner’s desire to exit the partnership agreement was to acquire the minority interest held by that partner and to cut back production. In the second quarter of 1999, the company accrued related costs associated with the MiCRUS operations. The liability created was primarily for lease termination charges for equipment under the MiCRUS operation. Since June 1999, related activities were under way and were completed in June 2000. The liabilities accrued in the second quarter of 1999 were utilized during the second quarter of 2000. In June 2000, the company sold its MiCRUS semiconductor operations to Philips Semiconductors, an affiliate of Royal Philips Electronics.    The company also announced aggressive steps intended to improve its competitive position in the markets that STD serves by merging server hard disk drive (HDD) product lines and realigning operations. The company integrated all server HDDs into a single low-cost design platform that uses common development and manufacturing processes. The company transferred manufacturing assembly and test operations to Hungary and Mexico and completed these actions by mid 2000.   The actions within NHD relate to a global alliance with Cisco Systems, Inc. As a result of the announcement of the alliance, demand for the router and switch products by both existing and new customers deteriorated. 
page no. eighty-oneThe following table identifies the significant components of the pre-tax charge related to the 1999 actions and the liability as of December 31, 2000 and 1999:InvestmentsLiabilityLiabilityTotaland OtherLiabilityas ofas ofPre-TaxAssetCreatedOtherDecember 31,OtherDecember 31,(dollars in millions)Charges *Write-Downsin 1999PaymentsAdjustments**1999PaymentsAdjustments**2000Technology Group MD Actions:DRAMEquipment (1)$««««662$««««662$«««—$«—$«—$«««—$«««—$«—$«««—Employee terminations: (2)(8)Current30—30151833442615Non-current137—137—(21)116—(30)86Dominion investment (3)171171———————MiCRUS investment (4)(8)152—152——152152——STD Actions: Equipment (5)337337———————Employee terminations (6)(8)23—2316—77——NHD Action:Inventory write-downs and contract cancellations (7)178178———————Total 1999 actions$«1,690$«1,348$«342$«31$««(3)$«308$«203$««(4)$«101
* With the exception of NHD inventory write-downs, all charges were recorded in Selling, general and administrative expense. NHD inventory write-downs were recorded in Hardware cost.** Principally represents reclassification of non-current to current and translation adjustments.(1) Represents (a) the difference between net book value and fair value of assets that were contributed to a joint venture, (b) the book value of assets that were removed from service as a result of the MD actions and were scrapped during the second quarter of 1999 and (c) the difference between the net book value and the appraised fair value of test equipment that is subject to sale-leaseback agreements and that is being used and appropriately expensed.(2) Workforce reductions that affected approximately 790 employees (455 direct manufacturing and 335 indirect manufacturing) in France. The workforce reductions were completed by the end of the first quarter of 2000. (3) Write-off of investment in joint venture at the signing of the agreement with Toshiba Corporation.Change in EstimateAs a result of a change in the estimated useful life of personal computers from five years to three years, the company recognized a charge in the second quarter of 1999 of $404 million ($241 million after tax, $.13 per diluted common share). In the second quarter of 1999, the company wrote off the net book value of personal computers that were three years old or older and, therefore, had no remaining useful life. The remaining book value of the assets will be depreciated over the remaining new useful life. The net effect on future operations is expected to be minimal as the increased depreciation due to the shorter life will be offset by the lower depreciable base attributable to the write-off of personal computers older than three years. (4) Acquisition of minority interest in MiCRUS and charges for equipment leasehold cancellation liabilities and lease rental payments for idle equipment. The MiCRUS semiconductor operation was sold to Philips Semiconductors during June 2000.(5) Represents (a) the book value of assets that were removed from service as a result of the STD actions and were scrapped during the second and third quarters of 1999, (b) write-downs to fair value of equipment under contract for sale and delivery by December 1, 1999 ($29 million), and March 31, 2000 ($5 million), and (c) the difference between the net book value and the appraised fair value of equipment that is subject to sale-leaseback agreements and that is being used and appropriately expensed. (6) Workforce reductions that affected approximately 900 employees (780 direct manufacturing and 120 indirect manufacturing) in the United States. The workforce reductions were completed by the end of the first quarter of 2000.(7) Write-down to net realizable value of inventory of router and switch products ($144 million) and contract cancellation fees ($34 million) related to deterioration in demand for router and switch products.(8) The 1999 year-end and 2000 amounts are also disclosed in note L, “Other Liabilities,” on page 78.R	RESEARCH, DEVELOPMENT AND ENGINEERING Research, development and engineering expense was $5,151 million in 2000, $5,273 million in 1999 and $5,046 million in 1998.    The company had expenses of $4,345 million in 2000, $4,575 million in 1999 and $4,466 million in 1998 for basic scientific research and the application of scientific advances to the development of new and improved products and their uses. Of these amounts, software-related expenses were $1,948 million, $2,036 million and $2,086 million in 2000, 1999 and 1998, respectively. Included in the expense for 2000, 1999 and 1998 are charges for acquired in-process research and development of $9 million, $111 million and $111 million, respectively. See note D, “Acquisitions/Divestitures” on pages 72 through 74 for further information about that expense.    Expenses for product-related engineering were $806 million, $698 million and $580 million in 2000, 1999 and 1998, respectively.
page no. eighty-twoS	EARNINGS PER SHARE OF COMMON STOCKThe following table sets forth the computation of basic and diluted earnings per share of common stock.FOR THE YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31:200019991998Weighted-average number of shares on which earnings per share calculations are based: Basic1,763,037,0491,808,538,3461,869,005,570Add—incremental shares under stock compensation plans46,750,03059,344,84951,124,900Add—incremental shares associated with contingently issuable shares2,331,3433,190,717—Assuming dilution1,812,118,4221,871,073,9121,920,130,470Net income applicable to common stockholders (millions)$«8,073$«7,692$«6,308Less—net income applicable to contingently issuable shares (millions)21(11)—Net income on which diluted earnings per share is calculated (millions)$«8,052$«7,703$«6,308Earnings per share of common stock:Assuming dilution$«««4.44$«««4.12$«««3.29$«««4.58$«««4.25$«««3.38BasicStock options to purchase 34,633,343 common shares in 2000, 27,355,056 common shares in 1999 and 4,124,730 common shares in 1998 were outstanding, but were not included in the computation of diluted earnings per share because the exercise price of the options was greater than the average market price of the common shares and, therefore, the effect would have been antidilutive. In addition, 5,131,038 restricted stock units in 1998 relating to the company’s Long-Term Performance Plan were not included in the computation of diluted earnings per share as their effect would have been antidilutive. Net income applicable to common stockholders excludes preferred stock dividends of $20 million for 2000, 1999 and 1998.T	RENTAL EXPENSE AND LEASE COMMITMENTSRental expense, including amounts charged to inventories and fixed assets and excluding amounts previously reserved, was $1,366 million in 2000, $1,397 million in 1999 and $1,431 million in 1998. The table below depicts gross minimum rental commitments under noncancelable leases, amounts related to vacant space associated with infrastructure reduction and restructuring actions taken through 1993 (previously reserved), and sublease income commitments. These amounts generally reflect activities related to office space and manufacturing equipment.Beyond(dollars in millions)	2001	2002	2003	2004	2005	2005Gross rental commitments	$«1,363	$«1,210	$«962	$«650	$«491	$«1,586Vacant space	166	119	71	39	33	83Sublease income commitments	100	75	53	40	36	19page no.eighty-three
U	STOCK-BASED COMPENSATION PLANSThe company applies Accounting Principles Board (APB) Opinion No. 25, “Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees,” and related Interpretations in accounting for its stock-based compensation plans. A description of the terms of the company’s stock-based compensation plans follows:Long-Term Performance PlanIncentive awards are provided to officers and other key employees under the terms of the IBM 1999 Long-Term Performance Plan, which was approved by stockholders in April 1999, and its predecessor plan, the IBM 1997 Long-Term Performance Plan (“the Plans”). The Plans are administered by the Executive Compensation and Management Resources Committee of the Board of Directors. The committee determines the type and terms of the awards to be granted, including vesting provisions.    Awards may include stock options, stock appreciation rights, restricted stock, cash or stock awards, or any combination thereof. The number of shares that may be issued under the IBM 1999 Long-Term Performance Plan is 118.7 million. There were 121.9 million and 118.7 million unused shares available to be granted under the IBM 1999 LongTerm Performance Plan as of December 31, 2000 and 1999, respectively. The increase in unused shares available resulted from the rollover of remaining 1997 Plan shares to the 1999 Plan. There were no unused shares available and 33.7 million unused shares available to be granted under the IBM 1997 Long-Term Performance Plan as of December 31, 2000 and 1999, respectively.    With the exception of stock options, these awards (which are expressed in terms of shares) are adjusted to fair value at the end of each period, and the change in value is included in net income. Awards under the Plans resulted in compensation expense of $134.0 million, $267.3 million and $322.4 million in 2000, 1999 and 1998, respectively. STOCK OPTION GRANTS Wtd. Avg.2000Wtd. Avg.19991998Wtd. Avg.ExerciseNo. of SharesExerciseNo. of SharesExerciseNo. of SharesPriceUnder OptionPriceUnder OptionPriceUnder OptionBalance at January 1$««60146,136,523$««36131,443,850$«27123,456,722Options granted10242,601,01411542,786,8455341,175,350Options exercised35(18,243,347)28(23,160,228)22(29,633,476)Options canceled/expired87(9,937,187)61(4,933,944)36(3,554,746)Balance at December 31$««73160,557,003$««60146,136,523$«36131,443,850Exercisable at December 31$««4566,599,878$««2951,599,735$«2246,191,636The shares under option at December 31, 2000, were in the following exercise price ranges:	Options Outstanding	Options Currently ExercisableWtd. Avg.Wtd. Avg.RemainingWtd. Avg.No. ofExerciseContractualNo. ofExerciseExercise Price RangeOptionsPriceLife (in years)OptionsPrice$ 10—4050,046,086$«28542,552,911$«27$ 41—7030,932,90252713,935,44652$ 71—10016,777,5728883,911,82185$ 101 and over62,800,44311696,199,700129160,557,003$«73766,599,878$«45page no.eighty-fourStock options are granted to employees at an exercise price equal to the fair market value of the company’s stock at the date of grant. Generally, options vest 25 percent per year, are fully vested four years from the grant date and have a term of ten years. The following tables summarize option activity under the Plans during 2000, 1999 and 1998:
IBM Employees Stock Purchase Plan The IBM Employees Stock Purchase Plan (ESPP) enables substantially all regular employees to purchase full or fractional shares of IBM common stock through payroll deductions of up to 10 percent of eligible compensation. Effective July 1, 2000, ESPP was amended whereby the share price paid by an employee changed from 85 percent of the average market price on the last business day of each pay period, to the lesser of 85 percent of the average market price on the first business day of each offering period or 85 percent of the average market price on the last business day of each pay period. The current plan provides semi-annual offerings over the fiveyear period commencing July 1, 2000. ESPP participants are restricted from purchasing more than $25,000 of common stock in one calendar year or 1,000 shares in an offering period. This change is not expected to have a significant effect on the company’s financial condition. The stockholders approved the current plan in 2000. Approximately 26.3 million, 57.3 million and 63.0 million reserved unissued shares were available for purchase under ESPP at December 31, 2000, 1999 and 1998, respectively. Shares for ESPP may be sourced from authorized but unissued shares, treasury shares or shares repurchased from time to time.    Pursuant to the provisions of the ESPP, during 2000, 1999 and 1998, employees paid $621 million, $514 million and $415 million, respectively, to purchase 6.9 million, 5.7 million and 8.0 million shares, respectively, all of which were treasury shares. Pro Forma Disclosure (dollars in millions except per share amounts)2000As ReportedPro Forma1999As ReportedPro Forma1998As ReportedPro FormaNet income applicable to common stockholders$«8,073$«7,183$«7,692$«7,044$«6,308$«5,985Earnings per share of common stock:Assuming dilution$«««4.44$«««3.99$«««4.12$«««3.78$«««3.29$«««3.12$÷«4.58$«««4.07$«««4.25$«««3.89$«««3.38$«««3.20BasicIn accordance with APB Opinion No. 25, the company does not recognize expense for stock options granted under the Plans or for employee stock purchases under the ESPP. SFAS No. 123, “Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation,” requires a company to determine the fair market value of all awards of stock-based compensation at the grant date and to disclose pro forma net income and earnings per share as if the resulting stock-based compensation amounts were recorded in the Consolidated Statement of Earnings. The table below presents these pro forma disclosures.
The pro forma amounts that are disclosed in accordance with SFAS No. 123 reflect the portion of the estimated fair value of awards that was earned for the years ended December 31, 2000, 1999 and 1998.    The fair market value of stock option grants is estimated using the Black-Scholes option-pricing model with the following assumptions:V	RETIREMENT PLANS200019991998Term (years)*4/55/65/6Volatility**32.0%27.3%26.4Risk-free interest rate (zero coupon U.S. treasury note)5.1%6.6%5.1Dividend yield0.5%0.4%0.8Weighted-average fair $«36$«46$«18* Option term is 4 years for tax incentive options and 5 years for non-tax incentive options for the year ended December 31, 2000. Option term is 5 years for tax incentive options and 6 years for non-tax incentive options for the years ended December 31, 1999 and 1998.by a noncontributory plan that is funded by company contributions to an irrevocable trust fund, which is held for the sole benefit of participants. lion, respectively. Total retirement-related (income)/cost including postretirement medical coverage (see note W,%	“Nonpension Postretirement Benefits,” on pages 88 and 89) for the years ended December 31, 2000, 1999 and 1998, was %	$(327) million, $83 million and $286 million, respectively.	%	U.S. PlansU.S. regular, full-time and part-time employees are coveredvalue per option** To determine volatility, the company measured the daily price changes of the stock over the respective term for tax incentive options and non-tax incentive options.page no.eighty-fiveThe company and its subsidiaries have defined benefit and defined contribution retirement plans that cover substantially all regular employees, and a supplemental retirement plan that covers certain executives. Total retirement plan (income)/cost for the years ended December 31, 2000, 1999 and 1998, was $(728) million, $(288) million and $(89) milEffective January 1, 2001, the company increased pension benefits to recipients who retired before January 1, 1997. The increases range from 2.5 percent to 25 percent, and are based on the year of retirement and the pension benefit currently being received. This improvement is expected to result in an additional cost to the company of approximately $100 million in 2001.   Effective July 1, 1999, the company amended the IBM Retirement Plan to establish the IBM Personal Pension Plan (the U.S. Plan). The new plan establishes a new formula for determining pension benefits for many of its employees. Under the amended U.S. Plan, a new formula was created whereby retirement benefits are credited to each employee’s cash balance account monthly based on a percentage of the employee’s pensionable compensation. Employees who were retirement eligible or within five years of retirement eligibility with at least one year of service, or who were at least forty years of age with at least ten years of service as of June 30, 1999, could elect to participate under the new formula or to have their service and earnings credit accrue under the preexisting benefit formula. Benefits become vested on the completion of five years of service under either formula.    The number of individuals receiving benefits for this plan at December 31, 2000 and 1999, was 129,290 and 124,175, respectively. Net periodic pension (income)/cost for this plan for the years ended December 31, 2000, 1999 and 1998 was $(896) million, $(638) million and $(454) million, respectively.    U.S. regular, full-time and part-time employees are eligible to participate in the Tax Deferred Savings Plan (TDSP), which is a qualified voluntary defined contribution plan; the company matches 50 percent of the employee’s contribution up to the first 6 percent of the employee’s compensation. The total (income)/cost of all of the company’s U.S. defined contribution plans was $294 million, $275 million and $258 million for the years ended December 31, 2000, 1999 and 1998, respectively.Non-U.S. PlansMost subsidiaries and branches outside the United States have defined benefit and/or defined contribution retirement plans that cover substantially all regular employees, under which the company deposits funds under various fiduciary-type arrangements, purchases annuities under group contracts or provides reserves. Benefits are typically based on years of service and the employee’s compensation, generally during a fixed number of years immediately before retirement. The ranges of assumptions that are used for the non-U.S. plans reflect the different economic environments within various countries. The total non-U.S. retirement plan (income)/cost of these plans for the years ended December 31, 2000, 1999 and 1998 was $(198) million, $7 million and $48 million, respectively.U.S. Supplemental Executive Retention PlanThe company also has a non-qualified U.S. Supplemental Executive Retention Plan (SERP). The SERP, which is unfunded, provides defined pension benefits outside the IBM Retirement Plan to eligible executives based on average earnings, years of service and age at retirement. Effective July 1, 1999, the company adopted the Supplemental Executive Retention Plan (which replaced the previous Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan). Some participants of the pre-existing SERP will still be eligible for benefits under that plan, but will not be eligible for the new plan. The total (income)/cost of this plan for the years ended December 31, 2000, 1999 and 1998, was $24 million, $30 million and $25 million, respectively. These amounts are reflected in cost of other defined benefit plans below. At December 31, 2000 and 1999, the projected benefit obligation was $163 million and $149 million, respectively, and the amounts included in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position were pension liabilities of $131 million and $109 million, respectively.
(INCOME)/ COST OF PENSION PLANS:	U.S. Plan	Non-U.S. Plans(dollars in millions)200019991998200019991998Service cost$«««563$«««566$«««532$«««445$«««475$«««399Interest cost2,5532,4042,2611,2341,2821,213Expected return on plan assets(3,902)(3,463)(3,123)(2,042)(1,937)(1,739)Amortization of transition assets (141)(140)(140)(10)(11)(10Amortization of prior service cost31(21)16242526Recognized actuarial losses—16—4285Settlement (gains)/losses———(25)(23)10Net periodic pension (income)/cost—U.S. Plan and material non-U.S. Plans$÷(896)$÷(638)$÷(454)$÷(370)$÷(161)$««÷(96Cost of other defined benefit plans726859233754Total net periodic pension (income)/cost for all defined benefit plans$÷(824)$÷(570)$÷(395)$÷(347)$««(124)$««÷(42Cost of defined contribution plans$÷«294$«««275$«««258$÷«149$÷«131$÷÷«90Total retirement plan (income)/cost recognized in the Consolidated Statement of Earnings$««(530)$««(295)$««(137)$««(198)$÷÷«««7$÷÷«48)))page no.eighty-sixThe changes in the benefit obligations and plan assets of the U.S. and material non-U.S. defined benefit plans for 2000 and 1999 were as follows:	U.S. Plan	Non-U.S. Plans(dollars in millions)2000199920001999Change in benefit obligation:Benefit obligation at beginning of year$«34,434$«36,561$«21,770$«22,048Service cost563566445475Interest cost2,5532,4041,2341,282Plan participants’ contributions——2829Acquisitions/divestitures, net3668(65)(47)Amendments6457563—Actuarial losses/(gains)1,729(2,766)243522Benefits paid from trust(2,421)(2,474)(728)(737Direct benefit payments——(218)(257)Foreign exchange impact——(1,626)(1,552Plan curtailments/settlements/termination benefits——47Benefit obligation at end of year37,53934,43421,15021,770Change in plan assets:Fair value of plan assets at beginning of year45,58441,59327,84325,294Actual return on plan assets1,3956,397(196)5,184Employer contribution——66143Acquisitions/divestitures, net3668(50)(36)Plan participants’ contributions——2829Benefits paid from trust(2,421)(2,474)(728)(737Foreign exchange impact——(2,015)(1,995Settlements——(115)(39)Fair value of plan assets at end of year44,59445,58424,83327,843Fair value of plan assets in excess of benefit obligation7,05511,1503,6836,073Unrecognized net actuarial gains(2,768)(7,003)(1,860)(4,597Unrecognized prior service costs883269168140Unrecognized net transition asset(491)(632)(56)(72Adjustment to recognize minimum liability——(90)(84)Net prepaid pension asset recognized in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position$«««4,679$«««3,784$«««1,845$«««1,460))))))Actuarial assumptions used to determine costs and benefit obligations for principal pension plans follow:	U.S. Plans	Non-U.S. PlansWEIGHTED-AVERAGE ACTUARIAL ASSUMPTIONSAS OF DECEMBER 31:200019991998200019991998Discount rate7.25%7.75%6.5%4.5-7.1%4.5-7.3%4.5-7.5%Expected return on plan assets10.0%9.5%9.5%5.0-11.0%6.0-10.5%6.5-10.0%6.0%6.0%5.0%	2.6	6.1%	2.6	6.1%2.7	6.1%	Rate of compensation increase	-	-	-The company evaluates its actuarial assumptions on an annual basis and considers changes in these long-term factors based upon market conditions and the requirements of SFAS No. 87, “Employers’ Accounting for Pensions.”   The change in expected return on plan assets and the discount rate for the 2000 U.S. plan year had an effect of an additional $(195) million and $(26) million of net retirement plan (income)/cost, respectively, for the year ended December 31, 2000. This compares with an additional $46 million and $65 million of net retirement plan (income)/costfor the year ended December 31, 1999, as a result of plan year 1999 changes in the rate of compensation increase and the discount rate, respectively.   Net periodic pension cost is determined using the Projected Unit Credit actuarial method.Funding Policy It is the company’s practice to fund amounts for pensions sufficient to meet the minimum requirements set forth in applicable employee benefits laws and local tax laws. Frompage no.eighty-seven
time to time, the company contributes additional amounts as it deems appropriate. Liabilities for amounts in excess of these funding levels are accrued and reported in the company’s Consolidated Statement of Financial Position. The assets of the various plans include corporate equities, government securities, corporate debt securities and real estate.OtherAt December 31, 2000, the material non-U.S. defined benefit plans in which the fair value of plan assets exceeded the benefit obligation had obligations of $16,941 million and assets of $20,915 million. The material non-U.S. defined benefit plans in which the benefit obligation exceeded the fair value of plan assets had obligations of $4,209 million and assets of $3,919 million.   At December 31, 1999, the material non-U.S. defined benefit plans in which the fair value of plan assets exceeded the benefit obligation had obligations of $21,168 million and assets of $27,400 million. The material non-U.S. defined benefit plans in which the benefit obligation exceeded the fair value of plan assets had obligations of $602 million and assets of $443 million.    The change from 1999 to 2000 was the result of the company’s pension plan in Japan. In 1999, the Japan pension plan assets exceeded its benefit obligation by approximately 15 percent. In 2000, the benefit obligation exceeded assets by approximately 3 percent. Total assets of this plan at December 31, 2000 exceeded $3,500 million.W	NONPENSION POSTRETIREMENT BENEFITSThe total (income)/cost of the company’s nonpension postretirement benefits for the years ended December 31, 2000, 1999 and 1998 were $401 million, $371 million and $375 million, respectively. The company has a defined benefit postretirement plan that provides medical, dental and life insurance for U.S. retirees and eligible dependents. The total net (income)/cost of this plan for the years ended December 31, 2000, 1999 and 1998, was $374 million, $342 million and $331 million, respectively. Effective July 1, 1999, the company established a “Future Health Account (FHA) Plan” for employees who are more than five years away from retirement eligibility. Employees who can retire within five years retain the benefits under the company’s preexisting retiree health benefits plan. Under either the FHA or the preexisting plan, there is a maximum cost to the company for retiree health care. For employees who retired before January 1, 1992, that maximum will become effective in the year 2001. For all other employees, the maximum is effective on retirement.   Certain of the company’s non-U.S. subsidiaries have similar plans for retirees. However, most of the retirees outside the United States are covered by government-sponsored and administered programs. The total net (income)/cost of these plans for the years ended December 31, 2000, 1999 and 1998 was $27 million, $29 million and $44 million, respectively. At December 31, 2000 and 1999, Other liabilities on the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position include nonU.S. postretirement benefit liabilities of $208 million and $219 million, respectively.   The net periodic postretirement benefit cost for the U.S. plan for the years ended December 31 include the following components:(dollars in millions)200019991998Service cost$«««50$«««48$«««42Interest cost449424427Expected return on plan assets(2)(6)(5Amortization of prior service costs(147)(143)(133Recognized actuarial losses2419—Net periodic post- retirement benefit cost$«374$«342$«331))The changes in the benefit obligation and plan assets of the U.S. plan for 2000 and 1999 are as follows:(dollars in millions)20001999Change in benefit obligation:Benefit obligation at beginning of year$««6,178$««6,457Service cost5048Interest cost449424Amendments—(127)Actuarial gains(69)(445Actuarial losses432371Benefits paid from trust(87)(325Direct benefit payments(510)(225Benefit obligation at end of year6,4436,178Change in plan assets:Fair value of plan assets at beginning of year105123Actual loss on plan assets(14)(18Employer contributions—325Benefits paid, net of employee contributions(87)(325Fair value of plan assets at end of year4105Benefit obligation in excess of plan assets(6,439)(6,073Unrecognized net actuarial losses986631Unrecognized prior service costs(801)(948Accrued postretirement benefit liability recognized in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position$«(6,254)$«(6,390))))))))page no.eighty-eightThe plan assets primarily comprise short-term fixed income investments.    The benefit obligation was determined by applying the terms of medical, dental and life insurance plans, including the effects of established maximums on covered costs, together with relevant actuarial assumptions. These actuarial assumptions include a projected health care cost trend rate of 6 percent.WEIGHTED-AVERAGE ACTUARIAL ASSUMPTIONS AS OF DECEMBER 31:200019991998Discount rate7.25%7.75%6.5Expected return on 5.0%5.0%5.0%plan assets 	%The company evaluates its actuarial assumptions on an annual basis and considers changes in these long-term factors based upon market conditions and the requirements of SFAS No. 106, “Employers’ Accounting for Postretirement Benefits Other Than Pensions.” The discount rate changes did not have a material effect on net postretirement benefit cost for the years ended December 31, 2000, 1999 and 1998.    A one-percentage-point change in the assumed health care cost trend rate would have the following effects as of December 31, 2000:	One-Percentage-	One-Percentage-(dollars in millions)	Point Increase	Point DecreaseEffect on total service and interest costEffect on postretirement $«««8$«(10)benefit obligation$«52$«(65)X	SEGMENT INFORMATIONIBM uses advanced information technology to provide customer solutions. The company operates primarily in a single industry using several segments that create value by offering a variety of solutions that include, either singularly or in some combination, technologies, systems, products, services, software and financing.    Organizationally, the company’s major operations comprise three hardware product segments—Technology, Personal Systems and Enterprise Systems; a Global Services segment; a Software segment; a Global Financing segment and an Enterprise Investments segment. The segments are determined based on several factors, including customer base, homogeneity of products, technology and delivery channels.   The Technology segment produces peripheral equipment for use in general-purpose computer systems, including storage devices, networking components, advanced function printers and display devices. In addition, the segment provides components such as semiconductors and HDDs for use in the company’s products and for sale to original equipment manufacturers (OEM). Major business units include Microelectronics, Storage Technology and Printing Systems.   The Personal Systems segment produces general-purpose computer systems, including some system and consumer software that operate applications for use by one user at a time (personal computer clients) or as servers. Major brands include the Aptiva home personal computers, IntelliStation workstations, IBM xSeries servers, NetVista and ThinkPad mobile systems. Also, in the first quarter of 2000, the company transferred the Retail Store Solutions (RSS) business, a leader in providing point-of-sale solutions, to the Personal Systems segment from the Enterprise Investments segment. In the first quarter of 2000, the company reorganized the Server segment and renamed it the Enterprise Systems segment. In accordance with the organizational change, the company transferred system-level product businesses from the Technology segment to the Enterprise Systems segment. The system-level product businesses are the company’s disk storage products, which include the Enterprise Storage Server known as “Shark,” tape subsystems and the company’s storage area networking program, and networking products. The segment also produces powerful multi-purpose computer servers that operate many open-network-based applications simultaneously for multiple users. They perform high-volume transaction processing and serve data to personal systems and other end-user devices. The servers are the engines behind the bulk of electronic business transactions, including e-commerce. Brands include the zSeries mainframe servers, the heart of the e-business infrastructure for mission-critical data and transaction processing, the IBM pSeries servers, the most powerful technologically advanced UNIX servers, and the IBM iSeries mid-range servers, integrated mid-range business servers that run sophisticated business applications. page no.eighty-nine   The Global Services segment is the world’s largest information technology (I/T) services provider, supporting computer hardware and software products and providing professional services to help customers of all sizes realize the full value of information technology. The segment provides value through three primary lines of business: Strategic Outsourcing Services, Business Innovation Services and Integrated Technology Services. Strategic Outsourcing Services creates business value through long-term strategic partnerships with customers by taking on responsibility for their processes and systems. Business Innovation Services provides business/industry consulting and end-to-end e-business implementation of such offerings as Supply Chain Management, Customer Relationship Management, Enterprise Resource Planning and Business Intelligence. Integrated Technology Services offers customers a single I/T partner to manage multi-vendor I/T systems’ complexity in today’s e-business environment including such traditional offerings as Product Support, Business Recovery Services, Site and Connectivity Services, and Systems Management and Networking Services. Learning Services supports the three primary lines of business and helps customers design, develop and deploy curricula to educate their employees. The Global Services segment is uniquely suited to integrate the full range of the company’s and key industry participants’ capabilities, including hardware, software, services and research.    The Software segment delivers operating systems for the company’s servers and e-business enabling software (middleware) for IBM and non-IBM platforms. The segment’s business offerings align with key customer opportunity areas—transformation and integration, leveraging information, organizational effectiveness and managing technology. In addition to its own development, product and marketing effort, the segment supports more than 35,000 Independent Software Vendors to ensure that the company’s software and hardware offerings are included in those partners’ solutions.   The Global Financing segment is the world’s largest provider of financing services for I/T. The segment provides lease and loan financing that enables the company’s customers to acquire complete I/T and e-business solutions—hardware, software and services—provided by the company and its business partners. Global Financing, as a reliable source of capital for the distribution channel, also provides the company’s business partners with customized commercial financing for inventory, accounts receivable and term loans, helping them manage their cash flow, invest in infrastructure and grow their business.   The Enterprise Investments segment provides industryspecific information technology solutions, supporting the hardware, software and services segments of the company. The segment develops unique products designed to meet specific marketplace requirements and to complement the company’s overall portfolio of products.   Segment revenue and pre-tax income include transactions between the segments that are intended to reflect an arm’slength transfer price. Specifically, semiconductors and HDDs are sourced internally from the Technology segment for use in the manufacture of the Enterprise Systems segment and Personal Systems segment products. In addition, technology, hardware and software that are used by the Global Services segment in outsourcing engagements are sourced internally from the Technology, Enterprise Systems, Personal Systems and Software segments. For the internal use of information technology services, the Global Services segment recovers cost, as well as a reasonable fee reflecting the arm’s-length value of providing the services. The Global Services segment enters into arm’s-length leases at prices equivalent to market rates with the Global Financing segment to facilitate the acquisition of equipment used in outsourcing engagements. Generally, all internal transaction prices are reviewed and reset annually if appropriate.   The company uses shared-resources concepts to realize economies of scale and efficient use of resources. Thus, a considerable amount of expense is shared by all of the company’s segments. This expense represents sales coverage, marketing and support functions such as Accounting, Treasury, Procurement, Legal, Human Resources, and Billing and Collections. Where practical, shared expenses are allocated based on measurable drivers of expense, e.g., headcount. When a clear and measurable driver cannot be identified, shared expenses are allocated on a financial basis that is consistent with the company’s management system; e.g., image advertising is allocated based on the gross profit of the segments. In the first quarter of 2000, the company decided to allocate to specific segments certain expense items that previously were unallocated (certain infrastructure reductions and currency exchange gains and losses). The company also enhanced its pre-existing practice of allocating shared expenses, where practical, based on measurable drivers of expense to give a more precise representation of the expenses that are associated with each segment. The unallocated corporate amounts arising from certain acquisitions, indirect infrastructure reductions and certain intellectual property income are recorded in net income but are not allocated to the segments.   The following tables reflect the results of the segments consistent with the company’s management system. These results are not necessarily a depiction that is in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles; e.g., employee retirement plan costs are developed using actuarial assumptions on a country-by-country basis and allocated to the segments on headcount. Different amounts could result if actuarial assumptions that are unique to the segment were used. Performance measurement is based on income before income taxes (pre-tax income). These results are used, in part, by management, both in evaluating the performance of, and in allocating resources to, each of the segments. The results for 1999 and 1998 have been reclassified to reflect the organizational changes, product transfers and expense allocation changes made in 2000.
page no. ninety%2000:External revenue$«10,221$«16,250$«11,340$«33,152$«12,598$«3,500$«1,369$«88,430Internal revenue3,017856242,43982894437,940Total revenue$«13,238$«16,335$«11,964$«35,591$«13,426$«4,444$«1,372$«96,370Pre-tax income/(loss)$««««««758$÷÷«(148)$«««2,092$÷«4,517$«««2,793$«1,176$«««(297)$«10,891Revenue year-to-year change	(2.7)	%1.1%	(0.9)	%2.2%0.0%9.6%	(17.8)	%0.6Pre-tax income yearto-year change29.4%58.9%14.2%1.2%	(9.9)	%12.3%57.4%9.2Pre-tax income margin5.7%	(0.9)	%17.5%12.7%20.8%26.5%	(21.6)	%11.3%%1999*:External revenue$÷«9,832$«16,118$«11,503$«32,172$«12,662$«3,219$«1,651$«87,157Internal revenue3,777455652,636767835198,644Total revenue$«13,609$«16,163$«12,068$«34,808$«13,429$«4,054$«1,670$«95,801Pre-tax income/(loss)$««««««586$÷÷«(360)$«««1,832$÷«4,464$«««3,099$«1,047$«««(697)$«««9,971Revenue year-to-year change2.8%20.2%	(16.9)	%9.9%6.5%7.5%	(9.6)	%5.1Pre-tax income yearto-year change	(41.3)	%63.5%	(37.4)	%23.9%13.0%12.3%	(5.8)	%4.3Pre-tax income margin4.3%	(2.2)	%15.2%12.8%23.1%25.8%	(41.7)	%10.41998*:External revenue«$«÷8,701$«13,419$«13,847$«28,916$«11,863$«2,979$«1,791$«81,516Internal revenue4,543296832,747749792569,599Total revenue$«13,244$«13,448$«14,530$«31,663$«12,612$«3,771$«1,847$«91,115Pre-tax income/(loss)$««««««998$÷÷«(986)$«««2,928$«««3,603$«««2,742$««««932$÷«(659)$÷«9,558%%%
Pre-tax income margin	7.5%	(7.3)	%* Reclassified to conform with 2000 presentation.Reconciliations to IBM as Reported(dollars in millions)20001999 *1998 *Revenue:Total reportable segments$«96,370$«95,801$«91,115Other revenue and adjustments(34)391151Elimination of internal revenue(7,940)(8,644)(9,599Total IBM Consolidated$«88,396$«87,548$«81,667)* Reclassified to conform with 2000 presentation.20.2%	11.4%	21.7%	24.7%	(35.7)	%	10.5%(dollars in millions)20001999 *1998 *Pre-tax income:Total reportable segments$«10,891$«««9,971$«9,558Elimination of internal transactions62(47)(162)Sale of Global Network—4,057—1999 actions—(2,205)—Unallocated corporate amounts581(19)(356Total IBM Consolidated$«11,534$«11,757$«9,040)page no. ninety-one* Reclassified to conform with 2000 presentation.Immaterial ItemsINVESTMENT IN EQUITY ALLIANCES AND EQUITY ALLIANCES GAINS / LOSSES The investments in equity alliances and the resulting gains and losses from these investments that are attributable to the segments do not have a significant effect on the financial results of the segments.Segment Assets and Other ItemsThe assets of the hardware segments primarily are inventory and plant, property and equipment. The software segment assets mainly are plant, property and equipment, and investment in capitalized software. In the past, many of the assets utilized in the Global Services segment were shared and under ownership of the company’s geographic marketing and distribution organizations and therefore were not included in any of the segment asset amounts below. In 2000, the assets discretely identifiable to and managed by the Global Services segment have been allocated to the segment and are reflected in the following table. Previously, these assets had not been allocated to any of the segments. This change was made in order to increase the level of focus and ownership on services-managed assets and to provide a more appropriate basis for business and competitive analysis. The assets primarily are accounts receivable, maintenance inventory, and plant, property and equipment including those associated with the segment’s outsourcing business. 2000:Assets$«««9,632$«2,442$«3,141$«10,492$«2,488$«40,822$«246$«69,263Depreciation/amortization1,0741564091,2436652,696126,255Capital expenditures/ investment in software1,7541933021,3117702,89897,237Interest income—————3,051—3,051Interest expense—————1,318—1,3181999*:AssetsDepreciation/amortization Capital expenditures/ investment in softwareInterest income Interest expense1998*:AssetsDepreciation/amortization Capital expenditures/ investment in softwareInterest incomeInterest expense* Reclassified to conform with 2000 presentation.$«««9,4592,0881,803——$«10,1911,1632,006——$«1,611147177——$«1,729137173——$«3,596225338——$«2,957206309——$«««9,3121,2591,292——$«««9,8821,3311,528——$«2,527576656——$«2,577681424——$«39,6862,9763,2172,9611,232$«40,1092,7683,4382,7251,252$«3691512——$«3071519——$«66,5607,2867,4952,9611,232$«67,7526,3017,8972,7251,252page no.ninety-two  To accomplish the efficient use of the company’s space and equipment, it usually is necessary for several segments to share plant, property and equipment assets. Where assets are shared, landlord ownership of the assets is assigned to oneMANAGEMENT SYSTEM SEGMENT VIEWsegment and is not allocated to each user segment. This is consistent with the company’s management system and is reflected accordingly in the schedule below. In those cases, there will not be a precise correlation between segment pretax income and segment assets.   Similarly, the depreciation amounts reported by each segment are based on the assigned landlord ownership and may not be consistent with the amounts that are included in the segments’ pre-tax income. The amounts that are included in pre-tax income reflect occupancy charges from the landlord segment and are not specifically identified by the management reporting system.   Capital expenditures that are reported by each segment also are in line with the landlord ownership basis of asset assignment.   The Global Financing segment amounts below for interest income and interest expense reflect the interest income and interest expense associated with the financing business, as well as the income from the investment in cash and marketable securities. Such Global Financing interest expense consists of interest expense on external debt of the Global Financing business, as well as interest expense on intercompany borrowings from other units of the company. The remaining amounts of interest income and interest expense under the caption “Total Segments” are not discretely identified to the other segments, but are included as part of an indirect expense allocation.    The segment information for 1999 and 1998 has been reclassified to reflect the organizational changes, product transfers between the segments and the aforementioned Global Services asset reclassifications.Reconciliations to IBM as Reported(dollars in millions)20001999 *1998 *Assets:Total reportable segments$«69,263$«66,560$«67,752Elimination of internal transactions(5,300)(5,776)(7,519Unallocated amounts:Cash and marketable securities2,2684,5634,295Notes and accounts receivable3,1452,6583,085Deferred tax assets5,4985,4285,376Plant, other property and equipment3,7984,1615,720Pension assets6,8095,6364,836Other2,8684,2652,555Total IBM Consolidated$«88,349$«87,495$«86,100)* Reclassified to conform with 2000 presentation.Revenue by Classes of Similar Products or Services For the Personal Systems, Software and Global Financing segments, the segment data on page 91 represents the revenue contributions from the products that are contained in the segments and that are basically similar in nature. The following table provides external revenue for similar classesGeographic Informationof products within the Technology, Enterprise Systems and Global Services segments. The Technology segment’s OEM hardware comprises revenue primarily from the sale of HDD storage files, semiconductors and display devices. Other technology comprises advanced function printers and networking components. The Enterprise Systems segment’s storage comprises revenue from the Enterprise Storage Server (“Shark”), other disk storage products and tape subsystems.Consolidated(dollars in millions)20001999 *1998 *Technology:OEM$«««8,305$«««7,794$«««6,742Other technology1,9162,0381,959Enterprise Systems:Servers$«««8,692$«««8,718$«10,624Storage2,4902,3562,439Networking products158429784Global Services:Services$«28,036$«27,035$«23,730Maintenance5,1165,1375,186* Reclassified to conform with 2000 presentation.Major CustomersNo single customer represents 10 percent or more of the company’s total revenue.
	Revenue*	Long-lived Assets**(dollars in millions)200019991998200019991998United States$«37,216$«37,171$«35,303$«21,449$«19,309$«18,450Japan12,12810,4118,5674,3194,7104,310Other countries39,05239,96637,79710,02910,25912,343Total$«88,396$«87,548$«81,667$«35,797$«34,278$«35,103* Revenues are attributed to countries based on location of customer.** Includes all non-current assets except non-current financial instruments and deferred tax assets.page no.ninety-three
FIVE-YEAR COMPARISON OF SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA(dollars in millions except per share amounts)FOR THE YEAR:20001999199819971996Revenue$«88,396$«87,548$«81,667$«78,508$«75,947Net income 8,0937,7126,3286,0935,429Per share of common stock:Assuming dilution4.444.123.293.002.50Basic4.584.253.383.092.56Cash dividends paid on common stock909859814763686Per share of common stock.51.47.43.3875.325Investment in plant, rental machines and other property5,6165,9596,5206,7935,883Return on stockholders’ equity AT END OF YEAR:39.7%39.0%32.6%29.7%24.8Total assets$«88,349$«87,495$«86,100$«81,499$«81,132Net investment in plant, rental machines and other property16,71417,59019,63118,34717,407Working capital7,4743,5775,5336,9116,695Total debt28,57628,35429,41326,92622,829Stockholders’ equity20,62420,51119,43319,81621,628%SELECTED QUARTERLY DATA2000First quarter$«19,348$«««7,011$«1,519$«««.83$«««.85$«««.12$«128.25$«99.50Second quarter21,6517,9431,9411.061.10.13126.94101.25Third quarter21,7817,8011,9631.081.11.13134.94100.00Fourth quarter25,6169,6692,6701.481.52.13119.6380.06Total$«88,396$«32,424$«8,093$«4.44*$«4.58$«««.511999First quarter$«20,317$«««7,258$«1,470$«««.78$«««.80$«««.1Second quarter21,9058,2242,3911.281.32.1Third quarter21,1447,5641,762.93.97.1Fourth quarter24,1828,8832,0891.121.16.1Total$«87,548$«31,929$«7,712$«4.12*$«4.25$«««.41 $«««99.63	$«80.882 132.00	81.50	2	139.19	117.56	2	123.25	89.007* Earnings Per Share (EPS) in each quarter is computed using the weighted-average number of shares outstanding during that quarter while EPS for the full year is computed using the weighted-average number of shares outstanding during the year. Thus, the sum of the four quarters’ EPS does not equal the full-year EPS. ** The stock prices reflect the high and low prices for IBM’s common stock on the New York Stock Exchange composite tape for the last two years.page no.ninety-fourstockholder informationinternational business machines corporationand Subsidiary Companies
IBM Stockholder ServicesStockholders with questions about their accounts should contact:EquiServe, First Chicago Trust DivisionMail Suite 4688P.O. Box 2530Jersey City, New Jersey 07303-2530(888) IBM-6700Investors residing outside the United States, Canada and Puerto Rico should call (201) 324-0405. Stockholders can also reach EquiServe, First Chicago TrustDivision, via the Internet at: ibm@equiserve.comHearing-impaired stockholders with access to a telecommunications device (TDD) can communicate directly with EquiServe, First Chicago Trust Division by calling (800) 490-1493. Stockholders residing outside the United States, Canada and Puerto Rico should call (201) 222-4489.IBM on the InternetTopics featured in this Annual Report can be found via the IBM home page on the Internet (http://www.ibm.com). Financial results, news on IBM products, services and other activities can also be found via that address. Stockholders of record can receive online account information and answers to frequently asked questions regarding stockholder accounts via the internet (http://www.ibm.com/investor). Stockholders of record can also consent to receive future IBMAnnual Reports and Proxy Statements online through the Internet at this site.IBM Investor Services ProgramThe Investor Services Program brochure outlines a number of services provided for IBM stockholders and potential IBM investors, including the reinvestment of dividends, direct purchase and the deposit of IBM stock certificates for safekeeping. Call (888) 421-8860 for a copy of the brochure. Investors residing outside the United States, Canada and Puerto Rico should call (201) 324-0405.Investors with other requests may write to:IBM Stockholder RelationsIBM CorporationNew Orchard RoadArmonk, New York 10504IBM StockIBM common stock is listed on the New York Stock Exchange, on other exchanges in the United States and around the world.Annual MeetingThe IBM Annual Meeting of Stockholders will be held on Tuesday, April 24, 2001, at 10 a.m. (EST) in the Savannah International Trade and Convention Center, One International Drive, Savannah, Georgia.Stockholder CommunicationsStockholders in the United States and Canada can get quarterly financial results, listen to a summary of Mr. Gerstner’s Annual Meeting remarks and hear voting results from the meeting by calling (800) IBM-7800. Callers can also request printed copies of the information via mail or fax. Stockholders residing outside the United States, Canada and Puerto Rico should call (402) 573-9861.Literature for IBM StockholdersThe following literature on IBM is available without charge from: EquiServe, First Chicago Trust DivisionMail Suite 4688P.O. Box 2530Jersey City, New Jersey 07303-2530(888) IBM-6700Investors residing outside the United States, Canada and Puerto Rico should call (201) 324-0405.The Form 10-K Annual Report and Form 10-Q QuarterlyReports to the SEC provide additional information on IBM’s business. The 10-K is issued in March; 10-Q reports are released in May, August and November.An audio cassette recording of the 2000 Annual Report will be available for sight-impaired stockholders in June.IBM Credit Corporation’s Annual Report is available in April.“IBM Environment and Well-Being: Progress Report ” reports on IBM’s environmental, safety and energy programs.“Valuing Diversity: An Ongoing Commitment” communicates to the company’s entire community of employees, customers, stockholders, vendors, suppliers, business partners and employment applicants the importance IBM places on the diversity of the company’s workplace and marketplace.General InformationFor answers to general questions about IBM from within the continental United States, call (800) IBM-4YOU. From outside the United States, call (404) 238-1234.Corporate OfficesInternational Business Machines CorporationNew Orchard RoadArmonk, New York 10504(914) 499-1900 The IBM Annual Report is printed on recycled paper and is recyclable.*AIX, Aptiva, AS/400, DB2, IBM, IntelliStation, MiCRUS, MQSeries, Netfinity,NetVista,  RS/6000, S/390, Shark, ThinkPad and WebSphere are trademarks of International Business Machines Corporation or its wholly owned subsidiaries. CATIA is a trademark of Dassault Systemes SA. Intel is a trademark of Intel Corporation.Linux is a trademark of Linus Torvalds. Lotus and Lotus Notes are trademarks of Lotus Development Corporation. Tivoli is a trademark of Tivoli Systems, Inc. Windows NT is a trademark of Microsoft Corporation. UNIX is a trademark in the United States and other countries licensed exclusively through The Open Group.Other company product and serve names may be trademarks or service marks of others. Printed in U.S. G507-0501-06
page no.ninety-five
BOARD OF DIRECTORScathleen blackPresidentHearst Magazineskenneth i. chenaultPresident and Chief Executive OfficerAmerican Express Companyjuergen dormannChairman of the Board of Management Aventis S.A. louis v. gerstner, jr.Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer, IBMSENIOR MANAGEMENT louis v. gerstner, jr.Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officersamuel j. palmisanoPresident and Chief Operating Officer john m. thompsonVice Chairman of the Boardcorporate headquartersjohn r. joyceSenior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer mark loughridgeVice President and Controller robert f. woods  Vice President and Treasurer david b. kalisSenior Vice President Communications jon c. iwataVice PresidentCorporate Communicationsabby f. kohnstammSenior Vice PresidentMarketingj. randall macdonaldSenior Vice President Human Resourceslawrence r. ricciardiSenior Vice President and General Counselrobert g. andereggVice President and Assistant General Counsel christopher g. caineVice PresidentGovernmental Programs daniel e. o’donnellVice President Assistant General Counsel and Secretaryj. bruce harreldSenior Vice President Strategyphilip s. thompsonVice PresidentBusiness Transformation and Chief Information Officernannerl o. keohanePresidentDuke Universitycharles f. knightChairman of the Board Emerson Electric Co. minoru makiharaChairman of the BoardMitsubishi Corporation lucio a. notoRetired Vice Chairman of the BoardExxon Mobil Corporationtechnology and manufacturingnicholas m. donofrioSenior Vice President paul m. hornSenior Vice President Researchibm global services douglas t. elixSenior Vice President and Group Executivemichael e. danielsGeneral ManagerIBM Global Services Asia Pacificmark w. elliotGeneral ManagerIBM Global Services Americashans-ulrich maerkiGeneral ManagerIBM Global ServicesEurope/Middle East/Africa frank kernGeneral ManagerProfessional Servicesvirginia m. romettyGeneral ManagerStrategy and Marketing frank j. roneyGeneral ManagerBusiness Innovation Servicespersonal and printing systems group robert w. moffat, jr.General Managerjonathan j. judgeGeneral ManagerPersonal Computing Division ralph f. martinoVice President Marketing, Sales Operations and Strategysamuel j. palmisanoPresident and Chief Operating Officer, IBM john b. slaughterPresident and Chief Executive Officer National Action Council forMinorities in Engineering, Inc. sidney taurelChairman of the Board, President and Chief Executive Officer Eli Lilly and Company john m. thompsonVice Chairman of the Board, IBMsales and distribution groupwilliam a. etheringtonSenior Vice President and Group Executivekhalil barsoumGeneral ManagerGlobal Communications Sectordavid r. carlucciGeneral Manager IBM Americas jerry coleGeneral ManagerGlobal Financial Services Sector kakutaro kitashiroGeneral Manager IBM Asia Pacifichenry w. k. chowGeneral ManagerIBM Greater Chinaj. michael lawrieGeneral ManagerIBM Europe/ Middle East/Africadouglas l. maineGeneral Manager ibm.comchristian nivoixGeneral ManagerGlobal Distribution Sector peter t. rowleyGeneral ManagerGlobal Business Partners curtis h. tearteGeneral ManagerGlobal Public Sectorstephen m. ward, jr.General ManagerGlobal Industrial Sectortechnology group john e. kelly, iiiSenior Vice President and Group Executiveibm global financingjoseph c. laneGeneral Manager, and PresidentIBM Credit Corporationalex trotmanRetired Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer Ford Motor Companylodewijk c. van wachemChairman of the Supervisory BoardRoyal Dutch Petroleum Companycharles m. vestPresident Massachusetts Institute of Technologysoftware groupsteven a. millsSenior Vice President and Group Executivelouis j. d’ambrosioVice PresidentWorldwide Marketingdavid j. murphyPresidentTivoli Systems, Inc. janet pernaGeneral ManagerDatabase Management john a. swainsonGeneral ManagerApplication and Integration Middleware al w. zollarPresident and Chief Operating OfficerLotus Development Corporationstorage systems grouplinda s. sanfordSenior Vice President and Group Executiveserver groupwilliam m. zeitlerSenior Vice President and Group Executiverodney c. adkinsGeneral Manager Web Serversdaniel r. colbyGeneral Manager Enterprise Serverssusan m. whitneyVice PresidentServer Marketingirving wladawsky-bergerVice PresidentTechnology and Strategy
board of directors and senior managementinternational business machines corporationand Subsidiary Companies
you’re one click awayfrom the no-holds-barred story of one year in the life of a company. www.ibm.com/annualreport/2000
®chairman’s forewordchairman’s forewordchairman’s forewordchairman’s forewordmanagement discussioninternational business machines corporationand Subsidiary Companiesmanagement discussioninternational business machines corporationand Subsidiary Companiesmanagement discussioninternational business machines corporationand Subsidiary Companiesnotes to consolidated financial statementsinternational business machines corporationand Subsidiary Companiesnotes to consolidated financial statementsinternational business machines corporationand Subsidiary Companiesto consolidated financial statementsinternational business machines corporationand Subsidiary Companiesinternational business machines corporationand Subsidiary Companies