
We’re not changing our name. Just everything else. And we’re not the only ones. Millions of enterprises aren’t waiting for a revolution. And they aren’t just watching one either. The revolution has arrived.With stunning speed,it has swept all of us into a new kind of economy and a new kind of society. A world of new mindsets and new ambitions,to be sure. But also a world where time-honored assets – customer relationships,smart people,deft strategy – still matter. This is the world of e-business.It is a world where everyone looks both new and familiar. Where any company and every company is a dot-com. e-business is here. We’re never going back.
03Dear fellow investor, At this point last year, the only thing we knew for certain was that the coming year would be unlike any other. We faced some big unknowns – economic crises in Asia and Latin America, the Euro conversion and, of course, Y2K. Underlying it all, making the uncertainties even more uncertain, was the tectonic plate shift of e-business.  As it played out, 1999 was, indeed, a roller coaster for IB M. The first half saw remarkable growth for our company, but in the second half, Y2K hit us hard. Many of our biggest customers locked down their systems and their spending, and because IB M’s customer base contains so many of the world’s leading businesses, government agencies and financial institutions – the very enterprises most at risk from Y2K – our sales suffered accordingly.  Even so, when you average out the highs and lows, 1999 was a good year for IB M. For the fifth straight year, we reported record revenue – $87.5 billion, up 7 percent over 1998. Our earnings rose to $7.7 billion, a 22-percent increase, resulting in another new record in earnings per diluted common share. Customer satisfaction achieved its highest level in a decade.  After making substantial investments – $5.8 billion on research and development, $6 billion on capital expenditures and $1.5 billion on acquisitions that strengthened our business portfolio – we had enough cash to buy back $7.3 billion of common shares and to increase our dividend to shareholders. Our market value, probably the most important measure of progress to investors, grew $24 billion in 1999, and has increased by nearly $170 billion in the past seven years.  Those are all good numbers, but not good enough. After building some real momentum over the previous two years, IB Mers found the last two quarters of 1999frustrating in the extreme. S ome outside the company say it was a wake-up call. I say it was a starting gun, because now, the real race begins.  The dot-coms, it seems, are taking over. You can’t chart future strategy, execute a transaction, invest money, even read a paper or magazine or watch TV without, somewhere in the process, bumping into dot-coms and, behind them, the whole world of e-business.  S ome find all this energizing, some annoying, but everyone’s paying attention. It’s the first question I get from any IB M customer in almost any part of the world: “What must I do to survive and win in this new world?” In fact, at the moment, it’s just about the only question I get.  The fact is, 1999 was the year e-business and the global Internet economy came of age. It was a tidal wave, sweeping everything before it, driving new levels of megamerger activity, carrying thousands of entirely new businesses to unprecedented levels of wealth (much of it probably unsustainable), submerging almost as many others, and rearranging the landscape of commerce.  One conservative estimate is that the e-business opportunity will approach $600 billion by 2003, and it could well be even larger than that. While the overall information technology (I/T) industry grows at around 11 percent, the e-business portion is growing much faster – at around 22 percent.  All that adds up to a tremendous opportunity for IB M. I’m not talking here about the pent-up demand that will be released as Y2K lockdowns are unlocked. I’m talking about the fact that customers are investing heavily in new e-business applications and solutions. We expect 2000 to be a good year for our company.  However, we aren’t taking anything for granted. We know how open the field





education are all profoundly affected by this onrush. In most cases, our technology is at once a threat and an important part of the solution.  The implications are clear. Our industry has a very limited opportunity to step up to these imperatives and demonstrate responsible leadership. Just as we are entitled to ask our public institutions to adjust to a world that runs at Web speed, so the information industries themselves must learn to define their ambitions with the broadest constituency – and longest time frame – in mind. The business of e-business is not the IPO; it’s the future. At IB M, that’s how we’re shaping our business decisions and our actions in the ever-more-essential arena of Internet-driven public policy. *         *         *There has never been a headier time to run a business – or a more challenging one. For all its fluctuations, though, I find myself more optimistic than I have been in my seven years at IB M – and that optimism has been deepened by three lessons of 1999.   First, the global economy has proven a lot more resilient than many of the doomsayers predicted. A networked world, it turns out, cushions rather than amplifies local downturns.   S econd, technology and technology professionals came through the challenge of Y2K with flying colors (including tens of thousands of IB Mers who exemplified our company at its very best in the way they helped our customers and our09own company through this challenge). A year ago, a severe backlash against technology in the wake of Y2K seemed likely. G oing forward, people will probably feel confident in I/T’s ability to survive even the severest of threats.   But the biggest reason for my feeling of optimism about IB M’s prospects is the change in IB M itself. In identifying and defining e-business, we have created a huge, entirely new kind of market for our goods, services and expertise – and we are stepping up to an entirely new set of challenges. We are reshaping our own company into a fundamentally different enterprise, what BusinessWeek magazine recently called “The BiggestDot.C om of Them All.”  I don’t make predictions. Even with 1999’s uncertainties largely behind us, our industry, our economy, the developments in technology and the shape of the emerging global culture remain far too dynamic to predict outcomes. But I am certain of one thing that 2000 holds in store for IB M. This year we will attack our remarkable opportunities with a new level of aggressiveness. Watch this space.Louis V. G erstner, Jr.C hairman and C hief Executive Officer
e-business is here.


14
15




20project blue gene thomas j. watson research center yorktown heights new york            How do subtle changes in the way proteins form turn otherwise normal red blood cells into cells that cause the condition known as sickle cell anemia? In December,    IB M announced a $100 million multiyear initiative to build a supercomputer powerful enough to explore such questions by simulating the “folding” of proteins into their complex, final shapes.Dubbed “Blue Gene” by IB M researchers, the computer may help unlock hidden causes of cancer, Alzheimer’s disease, cardiovascular problems, stroke or arthritis.  Armed with that kind of information, scientists can then begin the search for new diagnoses and treatments needed for cures.        When completed, Blue Gene will be able to calculate at one “petaflop” (a quadrillion operations per second) – some 500 times more powerful than today’s fastest supercomputers. To achieve that kind of performance in five years (a full 10 years ahead of the information technology industry's current rate of performance improvement), IB M is developing a new architecture that will be, appropriately, “self-healing” – so the system can overcome failures during the more than one year of computation needed to simulate the folding of just one protein.


24
25





              national center for atmospheric research boulder colorado             As industrial pollutants continue to alter global chemistry in barely understood ways, predicting long-term climate changes could be key to preserving life on our planet. At the U.S .   National Center for Atmospheric Research, scientists are improving our odds with an IB MRS/6000 SP supercomputer that can calculate the interactions of thousands of variables (like ocean temperature, precipitation and ozone depletion) over extended periods of time. In this simulation, white areas of cloud cover float over warmer surface temperatures shown in red and yellow, and cooler areas in blue-green.planetRx.comanywhereS ince December, customers with handheld computers have been able to go to PlanetRx.com to order over-the-counter medications and other health and beauty products. IB M provides RS/6000 SP and Netfinity servers, DB2 Universal Database and WebS phere software, as well as the technology that translates information from Web format to one used on handheld computers, such as this IB M WorkPad. 






e-business is here. We’re never going back.
40your guide





46corporate initiatives
“The time for analysis and evaluation has passed”
With those eight words in his address at the 1999National Education S ummit, IB M C hairman and C EO Lou Gerstner crystallized why there is no going back on the issue of world-class standards as the catalyst for reform in America’s public schools.   The 1999 S ummit was the second national conference in three years on the issue of raising academic performance and student achievement in K-12 public education in America. Both were held at IB M’s Executive Conference Center in Palisades, New York, and both were co-chaired by G erstner.    Driving high-quality public education is just one manifestation of IB M’s long-standing commitment to the communities that sustain our operations and our families. Through a $40 million grant program called Reinventing Education, we apply advanced information technologies and the expertise of some of our top technologists to improve learning. In recent years, the program has expanded to include schools in seven other countries, including a 1999 grant in the United Kingdom.    While education is our most visible philanthropic endeavor, we’re far from single-minded about our responsibilities as a good corporate citizen. In the U.S . portion of the largest-ever survey on the role of business in society, consumers identified IB M as the company that best exemplifies effective corporate citizenship.   In 1999, IB M dedicated more than $116 million to programs that assist people in need. Individual IB M employees added another $25 million through matching grants and donations to nonprofit organizations and educational institutions. And they gave even more – volunteering more than 4 million hours of their own time to local causes.   We are a company with a commitment to a culture of inclusion, one that draws on the talents of a workforce as broad and diverse as the markets we serve in more than 160 countries worldwide. In 1999, the number of minority executives in the United States increased by 31 percent. Women executives across IB M increased by 27 percent, and in March of this year the company was recognized by highly regarded Catalyst, Inc. for its leadership in advancing the careers of women throughout our workforce.    Hosting the 1999 National Education S ummit is completely consistent with the commitment to community leadership. Nobody – at least none of the realists – believes the transition from low standards to high standards will be easy, or that it will be made without painful consequences in the short term, as schools step up and end practices like social promotion.   Yet when the S ummit adjourned, governors from across the United States — along with business leaders, educators and representatives of both major teachers’ unions — had done two things: reaffirmed their commitment to high academic standards as the starting point for reform; and committed to execute a specific set of priorities – with deadlines – to move schools toward the goal of dramatically improved student achievement.   “We can’t cut and run when some students can’t meet the standards. We have to redouble our efforts and provide the help they need,” G erstner said. “We have to have some faith in our children and our teachers. They’ll deliver. It’s up to us to give them the chance.”company mission      At IB M, we strive to lead in the creation, development and manufacture of the industry’s most advanced information technologies, including computer systems, software, networking systems, storage devices and microelectronics.  We translate these advanced technologies into value for our customers through our professional solutions and services businesses worldwide.





54 management discussionInternational B usiness Machines C orporation and S ubsidiary C ompanies
S erver revenue declined 17.9 percent in 1999 from 1998, following a decrease of 5.9 percent in 1998 versus 1997. S /390 revenue declined in 1999 as customers completed the task of making Y 2K ready the mainframe computers that they use in data centers to run mission critical, highly integrated enterprisewide applications with large transaction volumes. Once the systems were Y2K tested and ready, customers were not inclined to enhance them because of concerns about affecting their Y2K readiness. AS /400 revenue declined due to a slowdown in sales related to Enterprise Resource Planning (E RP) solutions because of Y2K concerns. RS /6000 revenue declined for S P-2 and entry models, partially offset by the enterprise servers which had strong revenue growth in 1999. Lower revenue from S /390, AS /400 and RS /6000 drove the5.9 percent decrease in revenue in 1998 versus 1997. While S /390 revenue declined, total delivery of computing power increas ed more than 60 percent as meas ured in MIP S (millions of instructions per second) versus 1997. Product transitions late in 1998 affected the revenue for AS /400 and RS /6000 in 1998 versus 1997. In January 2000, the S erver Group reorganized to become the E nterprise S ystems Group and adopted a market-centric alignment to help customers connect and integrate S /390, AS /400, RS /6000, NUMA-Q and Netfinity servers to support a wider variety of applications. The reorganized group will focus on cross-server customer requirements for Web servers, enterprise servers, mid-market servers, and for storage subsystems across all computing environments.During the year, the company signed major technology contracts with Dell Computer Corporation (for the purchase of personal computer parts from the company over seven years), Acer Incorporated (technology purchase contract over seven years), E MC Corporation (five-year strategic technology and business alliance), Cisco Systems, Inc. (technology purchase over five years) and Nintendo Company, Ltd. (multi-year contract to purchase technology). The total of these contracts could be in excess of $15 billion.Hardware gross profit dollars decreased 11.0 percent in 1999 from 1998, following a 14.8 percent decrease in 1998 versus 1997. In 1999, the shift in the company’s revenue away from servers, pricing pressures associated with HDDs and memory chip prices drove the declines in gross profit dollars from 1998. A lower model mix in the mobile HDDs (in which some customers are meeting their capacity needs with new mid-range products, rather than with the more profitable high-end mobile products) also had a negative effect on gross profit dollars. The decline in gross profit dollars in 1998 was primarily driven by lower margins associated with significant price reductions in Personal S ystems products.Hardware gross profit margin decreases in 1999 versus 1998 and 1998 versus 1997 continued to be driven by the shift in the company’s revenue away from servers to lower gross profit products, such as personal computers, OEM chip technology and H DDs, as well as price pressures. Global S ervices (Dollars in millions )	1999	1998	1997Revenue 	$«32,172	$«28,916	$«25,166Cost	23,304	21,125	18,464Gross profit	$«««8,868	$«««7,791	$«««6,702Gross profit margin	27.6%	26.9%	26.6%Global S ervices revenue increased 11.3 percent in 1999 from 1998 and 14.9 percent in 1998 over 1997. Revenue growth in 1999 without the effect of the sale of the company’s Global Network to AT&T would have been 13 percent. (S ee note D, “Acquisitions/Divestitures,” on pages 72 and 73 for additional information about this sale.)While maintenance revenues declined 1 percent, reflecting continued price pressures as customers transitioned to new technologies, services revenue excluding maintenance and the effect of the sale of the Global Network grew 17 percent. S trategic Outsourcing S ervices was a major contributor to this performance. S trategic Outsourcing S ervices creates business value through long-term strategic partnerships with customers by taking on responsibility for their processes and systems. Business Innovation S ervices (formerly S ystems Integration and Consulting) and Integrated Technology S ervices (formerly Product S upport S ervices) performance was strong through the first nine months of 1999 but slowed in the fourth quarter due to the effect of Y2K-related customer lockdowns and a slowdown in Y2K services.



58 management discussionInternational B usiness Machines C orporation and S ubsidiary C ompanies
Hardware revenue declined 10.7 percent (10 percent in constant currency) to $10.2 billion from the 1998 fourth quarter. Y2Krelated declines in customer demand were a significant factor behind fourth-quarter revenue decreases in S/390, AS /400, RS /6000 and personal computers. However, within the company’s server family, Netfinity PC revenues increased significantly, as did revenues from RS /6000 mid-range servers, including the advanced RS /6000 Model S80. Microelectronics revenues increased substantially, principally due to growth in custom logic shipments. S hipments of the company’s new “S hark” disk storage product were strong in the quarter, although overall storage revenues declined largely as a result of ongoing price pressures in HDDs. The overall hardware gross profit margin declined to 26.6 percent from 34.2 percent.Global S ervices revenue grew 2.0 percent (4 percent in constant currency) versus the fourth quarter of 1998. S trategic Outsourcing showed good growth versus the fourth quarter of 1998. Networking S ervices declined year to year due to the sale of the Global Network to AT&T during 1999, while revenue from the other categories of services was flat or declined as a result of the Y2K-related slowdown. The company’s services unit signed more than $10 billion in services contracts in the quarter. Revenue from maintenance offerings was essentially flat when compared with the fourth quarter of 1998. S oftware revenue totaled $3.6 billion, up 1.7 percent (6 percent in constant currency) over the prior year’s final quarter. Middleware— which is critical for e-business— grew 8 percent (13 percent at constant currency), with record fourth quarter shipments of Lotus Notes and Domino groupware products and strong performance in database, transaction processing, and Tivoli system management software. The software gross profit margin improved 1.1 points year over year to 83.4 percent.Global Financing revenue increased 19.3 percent (22 percent in constant currency) versus the same period of 1998, and Enterprise Investments/Other declined 13.3 percent (10 percent in constant currency) compared with 1998’s fourth quarter. The revenue decline in Enterprise Investments /Other resulted from the company’s strategy to withdraw from certain businesses, such as ATMs.The company’s overall gross profit margin in the fourth quarter was 36.7 percent, compared with 39.0 percent in the year-earlier period. The decrease was primarily due to a drop in the hardware margin of 7.6 points from the fourth quarter 1998 across S /390 and AS /400 servers, storage and personal computer products. This decrease was partially offset by improved margins for services and software in the fourth quarter of 1999 versus the same period in 1998.Total fourth-quarter 1999 expense declined 9.3 percent when compared with the fourth quarter of 1998. The decline reflects lower revenue-related expenses due to the slowdown that is included in the fourth quarter results. The quarter also reflected expenses associated with infrastructure reductions in areas such as S ales and Distribution, Personal S ystems and S erver Group, which offset a gain associated with the sale to Cisco Systems, Inc. of certain IB M intellectual property. The expenseto-revenue ratio in the fourth quarter of 1999 was 24.4 percent, compared with 25.9 percent in the year-earlier period.The company’s tax rate was 30.0 percent in the fourth quarter, compared with 28.9 percent in the fourth quarter of 1998. The company spent approximately $2.1 billion on common share repurchases in the fourth quarter. The average number of shares outstanding in the fourth quarter of 1999 was 1,793.0 million, compared with 1,839.5 million in the year-earlier period. The average number of shares outstanding for purposes of calculating diluted earnings per share was 1,847.8 million in the fourth quarter of 1999 versus 1,894.3 million in the fourth quarter of 1998.Financial ConditionDuring 1999, the company continued to make significant investments to fund future growth and increase shareholder value, spending $5,806 million for research, development and engineering; $4,346 million for plant and other property, including machines used in strategic outsourcing contracts; $1,613 million for machines on operating leases with customers; $1,542 million for strategic acquisitions; and $7,280 million for the repurchase of the company’s common shares. The company had $5,831 million in cash and cash equivalents and marketable securities at December 31, 1999.The company has acces s to global funding s ources . During 1999, the company issued debt in a variety of geographies to a diverse set of investors, including significant funding in the United S tates, Japan and Europe. The funding has a wide range of maturities from short-term commercial paper to long-term debt. More information about company debt is provided in note J, “Debt,” on page 74.


61 management discussionInternational B usiness Machines C orporation and S ubsidiary C ompanies
Market RiskIn the normal course of business, the financial position of the company routinely is subject to a variety of risks. In addition to the market risk associated with interest rate and currency movements on outstanding debt and non-U.S . dollar denominated assets and liabilities, other examples of risk include collectibility of accounts receivable and recoverability of residual values on leased assets.The company regularly assesses all of these risks and has established policies and business practices to protect against the adverse effects of these and other potential exposures. As a result, the company does not anticipate any material losses from these risks.The company’s debt in support of the global financing business and the geographic breadth of the company’s operations contain an element of market risk from changes in interest and currency rates. The company manages this risk, in part, through the use of a variety of financial instruments including derivatives, as explained in note L, “Financial Instruments,” on pages 75 through 77.For purposes of specific risk analysis, the company uses sensitivity analysis to determine the effects that market risk exposures may have on the fair values of the company’s debt and other financial instruments.The financial instruments that are included in the sensitivity analysis comprise all of the company’s cash and cash equivalents, marketable securities, long-term non-lease receivables, investments, long-term and short-term debt and all derivative financial instruments. The company’s portfolio of derivative financial instruments includes interest rate swaps, interest rate options, foreign currency swaps, forward contracts and foreign currency option contracts.To perform sensitivity analysis, the company assesses the risk of loss in fair values from the effect of hypothetical changes in interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates on market sensitive instruments. The market values for interest and foreign currency exchange risk are computed based on the present value of future cash flows as affected by the changes in rates that are attributable to the market risk that is being measured.The company selected the discount rates that it used for the present value computations based on market interest and foreign currency exchange rates in effect at December 31, 1999 and 1998. The differences in this comparison are the hypothetical gains or losses associated with each type of risk.Information provided by the sensitivity analysis does not necessarily represent the actual changes in fair value that the company would incur under normal market conditions because, due to practical limitations, all variables other than the specific market risk factor are held constant. In addition, the results of the model are constrained by the fact that certain items are specifically excluded from the analysis, while the financial instruments that relate to the financing or hedging of those items are included by definition. Excluded items include leased assets, forecasted foreign currency cash flows, and the company’s net investment in foreign operations. As a consequence, the reported changes in the values of some financial instruments that affect the results of the sensitivity analysis are not matched with the offsetting changes in the values of the items that those instruments are designed to finance or hedge.The results of the sensitivity analysis at December 31, 1999, and December 31, 1998, are as follows:Interest Rate Risk: As of December 31, 1999, a 10 percent decrease in the levels of interest rates with all other variables held constant would result in a decrease in the fair value of the company’s financial instruments of $164 million as compared with a decrease of $322 million as of December 31, 1998. A 10 percent increase in the levels of interest rates with all other variables held constant would result in an increase in the fair value of the company’s financial instruments of $145 million as compared with an increase of $282 million as of December 31, 1998. Changes in the relative sensitivity of the fair value of the company’s financial instrument portfolio for these theoretical changes in the level of interest rates primarily are driven by changes in the company’s debt maturity and interest rate profile and amount. In 1999 versus 1998, the reported decline in interest rate sensitivity primarily is due to the effect of increased activity in receive fixed/pay floating interest rate swaps.







69 notes to consolidated financial statementsInternational B usiness Machines C orporation and S ubsidiary C ompanies
A Significant Accounting PoliciesPrinciples of Consolidation The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of International Business Machines Corporation and its controlled subsidiary companies, which in general are majority owned. Investments in business entities in which IB M does not have control, but has the ability to exercise significant influence over operating and financial policies (generally 20-50 percent ownership), are accounted for by the equity method. Other investments are accounted for by the cost method.Use of Estimates The preparation of financial s tatements in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts that are reported in the consolidated financial statements and accompanying disclosures. Although these estimates are based on management’s best knowledge of current events and actions that the company may undertake in the future, actual results may be different from the estimates.RevenueThe company recognizes revenue when it is realized or realizable and earned. The company reduces revenue for estimated customer returns, allowances and anticipated price actions. The following are the specific revenue recognition policies for each major category of revenue. HARDWARERevenue from hardware sales or sales-type leases is recognized when the product is shipped. Revenue from rentals and operating leases is recognized monthly as the fees accrue.SERVICES Revenue from time and material service contracts is recognized as the services are provided. Revenue from fixed price longterm service contracts is recognized over the contract term based on the percentage of services that are provided during the period compared with the total estimated services to be provided over the entire contract. Losses on fixed price contracts are recognized during the period in which the loss first becomes apparent. Revenue from maintenance is recognized over the contractual period or as the services are performed. Revenue in excess of billings on service contracts is recorded as unbilled receivables and is included in trade accounts receivable. Billings in excess of revenue that is recognized on service contracts are recorded as deferred income until the above revenue recognition criteria are met.SOFTWARERevenue from one-time charge licensed software is recognized at the inception of the license term, provided the company has vendor-specific objective evidence of the fair value of each element of the software offering and the software has been delivered. Revenue is deferred if vendor-specific objective evidence does not exist for each contract element, or if there are uncertainties about the timing of delivery of specific contract elements. The revenue that is deferred for any contract element is recognized when all of the revenue recognition criteria have been met for that element. Revenue from monthly software licenses is recognized as license fees accrue.FINANCINGRevenue from financing is recognized at level rates of return over the term of the lease or receivable. Income Taxes Income tax expense is based on reported income before income taxes. Deferred income taxes reflect the effect of temporary differences between assets and liabilities that are recognized for financial reporting purposes and the amounts that are recognized for income tax purposes. In accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (S FAS ) No. 109, “Accounting for Income Taxes,” these deferred taxes are measured by applying currently enacted tax laws. Translation of Non-U.S . Currency Amounts Assets and liabilities of non-U.S . subsidiaries that operate in a local currency environment are translated to U.S . dollars at yearend exchange rates. Income and expense items are translated at average rates of exchange prevailing during the year. Translation adjustments are recorded in Accumulated gains and losses not affecting retained earnings within stockholders’ equity. Inventories and plant, rental machines and other non-monetary assets and liabilities of non-U.S . subsidiaries and branches that operate in U.S . dollars, or whose economic environment is highly inflationary, are translated at approximate exchange rates prevailing when the company acquired the assets or liabilities. All other assets and liabilities are translated at year-end exchange rates. Cost of sales and depreciation are translated at historical exchange rates. All other income and expense items are translated at the average rates of exchange prevailing during the year. Gains and losses that result from translation are included in net income.
70notes to consolidated financial statementsInternational B usiness Machines C orporation and S ubsidiary C ompanies
Financial InstrumentsIn the normal course of business, the company uses a variety of derivative financial instruments to manage currency exchange rate and interest rate risk. To qualify for hedge accounting, the company requires that the derivative instruments that are used for risk management purposes effectively reduce the risk exposure that they are designed to hedge. For instruments that are associated with the hedge of an anticipated transaction, hedge effectiveness criteria also require that it be probable that the underlying transaction will occur. Instruments that meet these hedging criteria are formally designated as hedges at the inception of the contract. When the terms of an underlying hedged item or transaction are modified, or when the underlying hedged item ceases to exist, all changes in the fair value of the risk management instrument are recognized in income each period until the instrument matures. Those risk management instruments that do not meet the hedging criteria are accounted for at fair value, and changes in fair value are recognized immediately in net income. Refer to note L, “Financial Instruments,” on pages 75 through 77 for descriptions of the major classes of derivative financial instruments used by the company, including the specific methods that the company uses to account for them.In determining the fair value of its derivative and non-derivative financial instruments, the company uses a variety of methods and assumptions that are based on market conditions and risks existing at each balance sheet date. For the majority of financial instruments including most derivatives, long-term investments and long-term debt, standard market conventions and techniques such as estimated discounted value of future cash flows, option pricing models, replacement cost and termination cost are used to determine fair value. Quoted market prices or dealer quotes for the same or similar instruments are used for the remaining financial instruments. Cash Equivalents All highly-liquid investments with a maturity of three months or less at date of purchase are carried at fair value and considered to be cash equivalents.Marketable Securities Marketable securities included in current assets represent securities with a maturity of less than one year. The company’s policy is to invest in primarily high-grade marketable securities. The company’s marketable securities are considered available for sale and are reported at fair value with changes in unrealized gains and losses, net of applicable taxes, recorded in Accumulated gains and losses not affecting retained earnings within stockholders’ equity. Realized gains and losses are calculated based on the specific identification method. InventoriesRaw materials, work in process and finished goods are stated at the lower of average cost or net realizable value.DepreciationPlant, rental machines (computer equipment that is us ed internally, subject to an operating lease or as part of strategic outsourcing contracts) and other property are carried at cost and depreciated over their estimated useful lives using the straight-line method.The estimated useful lives of depreciable properties generally are as follows: buildings, 50 years; building equipment, 20 years; land improvements, 20 years; plant, laboratory and office equipment, 2 to 15 years; and computer equipment, 1.5 to 5 years.S oftware Costs that are related to the conceptual formulation and design of licensed programs are expensed as research and development. Also, for licensed programs, the company capitalizes costs to produce the finished product that are incurred after technological feasibility is established. The annual amortization of the capitalized amounts is the greater of the amount computed based on the estimated revenue distribution over the products’ revenue-producing lives, or the straight-line method, and is applied over periods ranging up to three years. The company performs periodic reviews to ensure that unamortized program costs remain recoverable from future revenue. The company charges costs to support or service licensed programs against income as they are incurred.The company capitalizes certain costs that are incurred to purchase or to create and implement internal use computer software, which include software coding, installation, testing and data conversion. Capitalized costs are amortized on a straight-line basis over two years.Retirement Plans and Nonpension Postretirement Benefits Current service costs of retirement plans and postretirement healthcare and life insurance benefits are accrued in the period. Prior service costs that result from amendments to the plans are amortized over the average remaining service period of the employees expected to receive benefits. Unrecognized net gains and losses that exceed ten percent of the greater of the projected benefit obligation or the market-related value of plan assets are amortized to service cost over the average remaining service life of employees expected to receive benefits. S ee note W, “Retirement Plans,” on pages 86 through 88 and note X, “Nonpension Postretirement Benefits,” on pages 88 and 89 for further discussion.71 notes to consolidated financial statementsInternational B usiness Machines C orporation and S ubsidiary C ompaniesGoodwill Goodwill is charged to net income on a straight-line basis over the periods estimated to benefit, generally not to exceed five years. The company performs reviews to evaluate the recoverability of goodwill and takes into account events or circumstances that warrant revised estimates of useful lives or that indicate that an impairment exists.Common S tock C ommon stock refers to the $.20 par value capital stock as designated in the company’s Certificate of Incorporation.Earnings Per S hare of Common S tock Earnings per share of common stock—basic is computed by dividing Net income applicable to common stockholders by the weighted-average number of common shares outstanding for the period. Earnings per share of common stock— assuming dilution reflects the maximum potential dilution that could occur if securities or other contracts to issue common stock were exercised or converted into common stock and would then share in the net income of the company. S ee note T, “EarningsPer S hare of Common S tock,” on page 83 for further discussion.B Accounting ChangesStandards Implemented The company implemented new accounting standards in 1999, 1998 and 1997. None of these standards had a material effect on the financial position or results of operations of the company.Effective January 1, 1999, the company adopted American Institute of Certified Public Accountants (AICPA) Statement of Position (S OP) 98-1, “Accounting for the Costs of Computer S oftware Developed or Obtained for Internal Use.” The S OP requires a company to capitalize certain costs that are incurred to purchase or to create and implement internal use computer software. S ee note A, “S ignificant Accounting Policies” on pages 69 through 71 for a description of the company’s policies for internal use software.Effective December 31, 1998, the company adopted S FAS No. 131, “Disclosures about Segments of an Enterprise and Related Information,” which establishes standards for reporting operating segments and disclosures about products and services, geographic areas and major customers. See note Y, “Segment Information,” on pages 89 through 93 for the company’s segment information.Effective December 31, 1998, the company adopted S FAS No. 132, “Employers’ Disclosures about Pensions and Other Postretirement Benefits,” which establishes standardized disclosures for defined benefit pension and postretirement benefit plans. S ee note W, “Retirement Plans,” on pages 86 through 88 and note X, “Nonpension Postretirement Benefits,” on pages 88 and 89 for the disclosures.Effective January 1, 1998, the company adopted S FAS No. 130, “Reporting Comprehensive Income,” which establishes standards for reporting and displaying in a full set of general-purpose financial statements the gains and losses not affecting retained earnings. The disclosures required by S FAS No. 130 are presented in the Accumulated gains and losses not affecting retained earnings section in the Consolidated Statement of S tockholders’ Equity on pages 66 and 67 and in note N, “S tockholders’ Equity Activity,” on pages 78 and 79.Effective January 1, 1998, the company adopted the AIC PA S OP 97-2, “S oftware Revenue Recognition.” This S OP provides guidance on revenue recognition for software transactions. See note A, “Significant Accounting Policies” on pages 69 through 71 for a description of the company’s policy for software revenue recognition.Effective December 31, 1997, the company implemented S FAS No. 128, “Earnings Per Share” (EPS). This statement prescribes the methods for calculating basic and diluted EPS and requires dual presentation of these amounts on the face of the Consolidated Statement of Earnings. Effective January 1, 1997, the company implemented S FAS No. 125, “Accounting for Transfers and S ervicing of Financial Assets and Extinguishments of Liabilities.” This statement provides accounting and reporting standards for transfers and servicing of financial assets and extinguishments of liabilities. New Standards to be Implemented In June 1999, the Financial Accounting S tandards Board issued S FAS No. 137, “Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities—Deferral of the Effective Date of FASB S tatement No. 133.” This statement defers the effective date of S FAS No. 133, “Accounting for Derivative Instruments andHedging Activities,” to fiscal years beginning after June 15, 2000, although early adoption is encouraged. S FAS No. 133 establishes accounting and reporting standards for derivative instruments. It requires a company to recognize all derivatives as

















89 notes to consolidated financial statementsInternational B usiness Machines C orporation and S ubsidiary C ompanies
The benefit obligation was determined by applying the terms of medical, dental and life insurance plans, including the effects of established maximums on covered costs, together with relevant actuarial assumptions. These actuarial assumptions include a projected healthcare cost trend rate of 6 percent.The net periodic postretirement benefit cost for the U.S . plan for the years ended December 31 included the following components:(Dollars in millions )	1999	1998	1997S ervice cost	$«««48	$«««42	$«««32Interest cost	424	427	455Expected return on plan assets	(6)	(5)	(15)Net amortization of unrecognized net actuarial losses and prior service costs	(124)	(133)	(119)Net periodic postretirementbenefit cost	$«342	$«331	$«353WEIGHTED-AVERAGE ASSUMPTIONS AS OF DECEMBER 31:Discount rate	7.75%	6.5%	7.0%Expected returnon plan assets 	5.0%	5.0%	5.0%The plan assets primarily comprise short-term fixed income investments. Certain of the company’s non-U.S . subsidiaries have similar plans for retirees. However, most of the retirees outside the United S tates are covered by government-sponsored and administered programs. The obligations and cost of these programs are not significant to the company.A one-percentage-point change in the assumed healthcare cost trend rate would have the following effects as of December 31, 1999:                                    One-Percentage-	One-Percentage(Dollars in millions )	Point Increase	Point DecreaseEffect on total service and interest cost	$«««7	$«««««(9 )Effect on postretirement benefit obligation	$«95	$«(120)Y S egment InformationIB M uses advanced information technology to provide customer solutions. The company operates primarily in a single industry using several segments that create value by offering a variety of solutions that include, either singularly or in some combination, technologies, systems, products, services, software and financing.Organizationally, the company’s major operations comprise three hardware product segments —Technology, Personal S ystems and S erver; a Global S ervices segment; a S oftware segment; a Global Financing segment and an Enterprise Investment segment. The segments are determined based on several factors, including customer base, homogeneity of products, technology and delivery channels.The Technology segment produces peripheral equipment for use in general-purpose computer systems, including storage and networking devices, advanced function printers and display devices. In addition, the segment provides components such as semiconductors and HDDs for use in the company’s products and for sale to original equipment manufacturers (OEM). Major business units include S torage S ystems, Microelectronics, Printer S ystems and Networking Hardware.The Personal S ystems segment produces general-purpose computer systems, including some system and consumer software, that operate applications for use by one user at a time (personal computer clients) or as servers, and display devices. Major brands include the Aptiva home PCs, IntelliStation workstations, Netfinity servers, PC 300 commercial desktop and ThinkPad mobile systems. These products are sold directly by the company and through reseller and retail channels. The S erver segment produces powerful multi-purpose computer systems that operate many open-network-based applications and are used simultaneously by multiple users. They perform high-volume transaction processing and serve data to personal systems and other end-user devices. The servers are the engines behind the bulk of electronic business transactions, including e-commerce. Brands include S /390, AS /400, RS /6000 and NUMA-Q. The segment’s products are sold directly by the company and through business partner relationships.The Global S ervices segment is the world’s largest and most versatile information technology services provider, supporting computer hardware and software products and providing professional services to help customers of all sizes realize the full value of information technology. The segment provides value through three primary lines of business: S trategic Outsourcing S ervices; Business Innovation S ervices; and Integrated Technology Services. Strategic Outsourcing S ervices create business value through long-term strategic partnerships with customers by taking on responsibility for their processes and systems. Business Innovation S ervices (formerly S ystems Integration and Consulting) provide business/industry consulting and endto-end e-business implementation of offerings like Supply C hain Management, C ustomer Relationship Management, E nterpris e Res ource Planning and B us ines s Intelligence.90notes to consolidated financial statementsInternational B usiness Machines C orporation and S ubsidiary C ompaniesIntegrated Technology S ervices offer customers a single IT partner to manage multi-vendor IT systems’ complexity in today’s e-business environment including traditional offerings like Product S upport, B usiness Recovery S ervices, S ite andConnectivity Services, and Systems Management and Networking S ervices. Learning S ervices supports the three primary lines of business and help customers design, develop and deploy curricula to educate their employees. The Global S ervices segment is uniquely suited to integrate the full range of the company’s and key industry participants’ capabilities, including hardware, software, services and research. The S oftware segment delivers operating systems for the company’s servers and e-business enabling software (middleware) for IB M and non-IB M platforms. The company has reorganized its e-business offerings to align with key customer opportunity areas — transformation and integration, leveraging information, organizational effectiveness and managing technology. In addition to its own development, product and marketing effort, the segment supports more than 35,000 Independent S oftware Vendors to ensure that the company’s software and hardware offerings are included in those partners’ solutions.The Global Financing segment is the world’s largest provider of financing services for information technology (IT). The segment provides lease and loan financing that enables the company’s customers to acquire complete IT and e-business solutions— hardware, software and services— provided by the company and its business partners. S pecial focus is placed on the financing needs of small and medium businesses, and the emerging financing needs of NetGen companies. Global Financing, as a reliable source of capital for the distribution channel, also provides the company’s business partners with customized commercial financing for inventory, accounts receivable, term loans and acquisitions, helping them manage their cash flow, invest in infrastructure and grow their business.The Enterprise Investments segment provides industry specific information technology solutions, supporting the hardware, software and services segments of the company. The segment develops unique products designed to meet specific marketplace requirements and to complement the company’s overall portfolio of products.S egment revenue and pre-tax income include transactions between the segments that are intended to reflect an arm’slength transfer at the best price available for comparable external customers. S pecifically, semiconductors and disk drives are sourced internally from the Technology segment for use in the manufacture of the S erver segment and Personal S ystems segment products. Technology, hardware and software that are used by the Global S ervices segment in outsourcing engagements are sourced internally from the Technology, S erver, Personal S ystems and S oftware segments. For the internal use of information technology services, the Global S ervices segment recovers cost as well as a reasonable fee reflecting the arm’s-length value of providing the services. The Global S ervices segment enters into arm’s-length leases at prices equivalent to market rates with the Global Financing segment to facilitate the acquisition of equipment used in outsourcing engagements. All internal transaction prices are reviewed and reset annually if appropriate.The company extensively uses shared-staff concepts to realize economies of scale and efficient use of resources. Thus, a significant amount of expense is shared by all of the company’s segments. This expense represents sales coverage, marketing and support functions such as Accounting, Treasury, Procurement, Legal, Human Resources, and Billing and Collections. Where practical, shared expenses are allocated based on measurable drivers of expense; e.g., Human Resources costs are allocated on headcount while account coverage expenses are allocated on a revenue mix that reflects the company’s sales commission plan. When a clear and measurable driver cannot be identified, shared expenses are allocated on a financial basis that is consistent with the company’s management system; e.g., image advertising is allocated based on the gross profit of the segments. The unallocated corporate expenses arising from certain acquisitions, indirect infrastructure reductions, certain intellectual property income and currency exchange gains and losses are recorded in net income but are not allocated to the segments.The following tables reflect the results of the segments consistent with the company’s management system. These results are not necessarily a depiction that is in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles; e.g., employee retirement plan costs are developed using actuarial assumptions on a countryby-country basis and allocated to the segments on headcount. A different result could be arrived at for any segment using actuarial assumptions that are unique to the segment. Performance measurement is based on income before income taxes (pre-tax income). These results are used, in part, by management, both in evaluating the performance of, and in allocating resources to, each of the segments.







1999 Annual Report41 41 