Dear IBM Investor: I am happy to report to you on a very strong year for our company. In my letter last year, I said that we believed we had positioned ourselves to capture the most attractive growth and profit opportunities in our industry. In 2006 we did just that, setting new records in profit, earnings per share and  cash performance.       What our numbers do not reveal — and what is perhaps IBM’s most notable accomplishment during this period — is that we achieved these results while fundamentally reshaping our company. Whether you look at our technology, strategy, business model, processes or culture, IBM is a very different enterprise today than it was at the beginning of the decade. We have prepared the company for growth and leadership in a radically different future — while continuing to deliver steady results.

Chairman’s Letter   IBM had a strong year in 2006. Revenue as reported was  $91.4 billion, up 4 percent, excluding PCs from our 2005 results. Pretax earnings from continuing operations were $13.3 billion,  an increase of 9 percent. Diluted earnings per share from  continuing operations were $6.06, up 23 percent, marking  16 straight quarters of growth. IBM has consistently generated return on invested capital significantly above the average for the S&P 500 over the past several years, and we did so again in 2006, with ROIC of 34 percent, excluding our Global Financing business. 
   IBM’s gross profit margin rose for the third consecutive year — to 41.9 percent, an increase of 1.8 points in 2006, up more than five points since 2003. Our pretax income margin rose to 14.6 percent, an increase of 1.2 points. Both margins are at their highest in the past 10 years. Significantly, as  I will discuss, they were achieved primarily by remixing our business to higher-value segments and by driving efficiency through global integration.  In many respects, IBM is a “higher-torque” engine today. With revenue growth that matches our segments of the industry, we have been able to generate strong profit and cash. In 2006 we generated net cash from operations, excluding a year-to-year change in Global Financing receivables, of $15.3 billion — an increase of $2.2 billion from last year and our highest on record. In addition, net cash generated from every dollar of revenue has increased 18 percent since 2003. IBM ended 2006 with $10.7 billion of cash and marketable securities. And of course, stronger earnings and cash give us more flexibility to increase returns to you and to invest in future sources of growth.  Our net 2006 cash investment of $3.8 billion for  13 acquisitions — nine of them in key strategic areas of  software — was up $2.3 billion year to year. After investing $6.1 billion in R&D and $4.7 billion in net capital  expenditures, we were able to return a record of nearly $9.8 billion to you — $8.1 billion through share repurchase and $1.7 billion through dividends — or more than 100 percent of our net earnings. In April 2006 we announced a 50-percent increase in our quarterly dividend, the largest percentage increase in IBM history and the 362nd consecutive dividend paid by IBM. This was the 11th year in a row in which we have increased our dividend. Our balance sheet remains strong, and the company is well positioned to take advantage of new strategic opportunities. 	Chairman’s LetterStrategic choiceSIn order to understand how we achieved these results,  I think it is helpful to look back to the major strategic choices we made several years ago. They were by no means obvious at the time, and most IT companies chose different paths. But as we entered the new century, we were convinced that three developments would be of paramount importance  to IBM and our clients:1. We believed that our clients would place a premium  on innovation. What technology company doesn’t  say it’s all about innovation? But if you really take this seriously, then you have to commit your company to continuous adaptation and change. Such is the nature of our industry, and many IT companies learn that lesson the hard way. Today, it’s clear that computing is radically changing — from the data center and the network to  the proliferation of technology into the home, appliances, vehicles and the infrastructure of the planet. And it’s equally clear that businesses and institutions worldwide now look to innovation as their key to competitive  differentiation and growth.   To capture the most valuable opportunities, we’ve had to change our mix of products, services, skills and technologies. This is why we’ve exited businesses like  PCs and hard disk drives, and why, through a combination of internal R&D shifts and acquisitions, we have  substantially strengthened our position in emerging, higher-value spaces, such as service-oriented architecture (SOA), information on demand, business process services and open, modular systems for businesses of all sizes.2. We believed that both our industry and our clients would seek to reintegrate. But it would not be integration as in the past — product bundling, “turnkey” solutions  or consolidation of industry segments. Instead, businesses would increasingly seek to integrate advanced technology with their business processes and operations, even their core business model. Why? Because this kind of integration would make them both more productive and more innovative. It would give them differentiation and competitive advantages they could not get from off-the-shelf technology and solutions. Conceptually, this is an ideal role for IBM to play — the “innovators’ innovator.” But since this kind of integration requires intimate knowledge of each client, it cannot be done in the lab or on the plant floor, and it certainly can’t be done in headquarters. It has meant an ongoing effort to change our processes and structures to push decision making close to the  marketplace — what we internally call “lowering the center of gravity” of IBM. 3. We believed that globalization would fundamentally change business. Because of free trade policies, the Internet and the emergence of highly skilled populations, we believed that globalization would arrive in full force — and with it the reality that anyone could capitalize on expertise and market conditions everywhere in the world. We believed this opportunity would soon become an economic imperative: Businesses, institutions, industries and societies would need to adapt to the changing  environment. One important aspect of this was a change in the form of the corporation itself. The “multinational” of the 20th century was evolving into a new kind of institution, the globally integrated enterprise — which locates its operations and functions anywhere in the world based on the right cost, the right skills and the right business environment. We committed ourselves to becoming a model of this new form, and we have begun transforming IBM’s operations accordingly, tapping into skills and expertise available all over the world and  integrating our operations globally. We have also begun a promising dialogue with our clients and with government, business and academic leaders around the world to explore the potential of global integration for economic and societal progress.As a result of these strategic choices and actions, IBM’s business model today is not only more aligned with our clients’ needs, but is also a stronger engine of financial performance. That was evident in 2006. Our innovation-driven strategy and financial model are also putting us in a favorable  position relative to our competitors within each area of our business mix.BuSineSS Mix and reSultSSome of IBM’s competitors — those who are not as focused, do not have the financial capacity to invest, or are trying  to straddle commodity and higher-value businesses — are struggling to deal with the changes underway today. As we 
Samuel J. Palmisano — Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer
 	Chairman’s Letterhave learned, it’s better to be in businesses that are truly differentiating in the eyes of the client than to go simply for size, volume and thin margins — where the client doesn’t receive unique value, and the investor doesn’t benefit.  This is why we have entered new, more attractive spaces, through acquisition and by redirecting our R&D investments. Let me describe how these shifts are impacting each of  our major businesses.• Software: In the world of software, we are witnessing  a shift toward new architectures and the componentization of applications. This new model, inherently networked and based upon open standards, enables different  business designs and the horizontal integration of business processes. Within the enterprise, its main impact is occurring at the level of middleware. Because we began years ago to build a position as the worldwide leader in middleware, IBM is now uniquely able to capitalize on it.    IBM’s software segment revenues totaled $18.2 billion in 2006, an increase of 8 percent. Software generated  40 percent of IBM’s segment pretax profits. We are  recognized as the industry leader in SOA . The information on demand practice we launched in 2006, grouped  under Information Management, grew 68 percent. Our acquisition of companies such as FileNet, MRO and Micromuse enhanced our growth in information and systems management. Our industry-leading WebSphere family grew 23 percent for the year, with particular strength in application servers and business integration. Rational software tools grew 4 percent, and Tivoli  26 percent. Our Lotus division — which introduced well-received Web 2.0-enabled collaboration tools for the enterprise in early 2007 — grew 12 percent. We will be expanding our software offerings in 2007 to move beyond one-on-one and team collaboration — introducing tools that build communities of expertise. • global Services: The global services industry is being reshaped by two trends. The first is the emergence of a new services model, based on the integration of software and services, and the breaking-up of formerly monolithic business processes into components that can be delivered over the Web. IBM Global Services is leading the industry in the development of business componentization  and the technology enablement of business processes.  The second trend is a shift to smaller deals of shorter duration, higher profitability and more industry-specific focus. While our transition to this model experienced some hiccups initially, we are making steady progress and saw solid growth in short-term signings in 2006.   IBM remains the leading IT services company in the world, with more than twice the revenue of our nearest rival. Revenues from our two Global Services segments in 2006 totaled $48.3 billion, an increase of 2 percent. Services’ share of IBM’s segment pretax profits increased to 37 percent. Revenues from the Global Technology Services segment totaled $32.3 billion, an increase of  3 percent. Revenues from the Global Business Services segment were essentially flat at $16 billion, but improvements in utilization, pricing, contract management and delivery optimization enabled it to grow its pretax margin by 2.7 points, to 9.8 percent, excluding 2005  special actions. IBM Global Services is ranked as the number one or number two service provider in consulting, systems integration, maintenance, Web hosting, application services and data center outsourcing. With a strong  finish to the year — the fourth quarter, with nearly  $18 billion in signings, was our largest since the second quarter of 2002 — we ended 2006 with an estimated backlog of $116 billion.• Systems and technology: IBM is the world leader  in servers, and is leading a number of key changes in  the industry, including shifts to multicore microprocessors, to high-end virtualized systems, and to the new category  of modular systems known as blades. In 2006 we rolled out systems based on the new generation of our  Power Architecture family, POWER5+; introduced  the System z Business Class mainframe, targeting smaller firms; and extended our virtualization and energy management capabilities.   Our systems and technology business extended  its industry leadership in 2006, with segment revenues of $22 billion, an increase of 5 percent. Global Financing segment revenues totaled $2.4 billion, a decrease of  2 percent. Our System z mainframes had a strong year, growing 8 percent and marking their sixth consecutive quarter of increased shipments of MIPS (millions of instructions per second). Our system storage business was up 6 percent for the year, and our microelectronics business continued to grow, increasing 22 percent for the year, thanks to our position as the technology engine for all three major gaming platforms. Systems and Technology Group and Global Financing accounted for 23 percent of IBM’s segment pretax profit in 2006.The hard work we’ve done to remix our businesses to lead  in these emergent, higher-profit spaces is now showing up in our earnings and gross profit margins. But a changed business mix is not the only factor causing IBM’s strong performance. innovation and gloBal integrationIBM’s lines of business work together in a model defined  by innovation and global integration, the twin imperatives that we believe are reshaping business and society in the 21st century. This ability to both innovate and integrate —  and do so in ways that are truly global — is unique to IBM, and sets us apart from our competition.  Last year was in many ways the culmination of our repositioning of IBM as an innovation company. Its most visible manifestation was our marketing and communications campaign around the theme, “What makes you special?”  Of course, marketing campaigns by themselves are of little importance — unless they persuade the world of an underlying reality that is substantial and meaningful. Ours did,  supported by a long list of clients whose innovation potential we have unleashed through unique solutions. It was also supported by the continued preeminence of IBM’s research and development capabilities, reflected in our 14th straight year of earning by far the most U.S. patents of any company  in the world.   Our ability to deliver differentiating innovation to our clients is being greatly enhanced by IBM’s global integration — which is simultaneously giving us better economics and deeper capabilities, while eliminating enormous redundancies that were built up over 50 years as a multinational. IBM operates in 170 countries, with about 65 percent of our employees outside the U.S., including 30 percent in Asia Pacific. Our non-U.S. operations generate about 60 percent  of IBM’s revenue.    IBM’s research and software development have long been globally integrated. The company’s R&D system assigns work among our 20,000-plus software developers in 61 labs in 15 countries, and 3,000 scientists and technologists in IBM Research centers in the U.S., China, Israel, Switzerland, Japan and India, based on areas of unique expertise.   In 2006 we expanded our global delivery centers, where talented IBMers support the full range of our clients’  applications and business transformation initiatives. We added thousands of skilled people and improved our capabilities in India, Brazil and Argentina, as well as Eastern Europe and multiple other locations in Asia. We have moved  our global procurement mission to China and many of the services that support our external and internal Websites  to places like Brazil and Ireland. Our financing back office is in Rio de Janeiro. These IBMers are not leading teams 
Generating Higher Value at IBM. Several years ago, we saw change coming.Value was shifting in the IT industry, driven by a new  	•  Companies were seeking to integrate advanced  computing paradigm, new client needs and the rising tide  	technology with their business processes and operations,  of globalization . 	not primarily to reduce costs, but to enable innovation  •  Change in computing architecture was rippling across  	and growth .the data center and the network, to a proliferation  	•  Enterprises and institutions were looking to tap into  of technology infused into all aspects of work and life .	skills and expertise available all over the world and to  integrate their operations globally ..  and we decided to become a globally integrated enterprise, in order to improve  iBM’s overall productivity and to participate in the world’s growth markets.IBM operates in 170 countries, with about 65 percent of our employees  	Over the next four years, IBM expects outside the U .S ., including 30 percent in Asia Pacific . Our non-U .S . operations  	the IT markets in Brazil, China, India generate about 60 percent of IBM’s revenue .	and Russia to grow revenue at more than two times the worldwide rate, 00 employee Population  	00 revenue  	creating a market opportunity  by geographic region	by geographic region	of more than $150 billion by 2010 . (Excludes OEM)00 iBM revenue growthEUROPE,	EUROPE,MIDDLE EAST	MIDDLE EAST	(Excludes PCs)AND AFRICA	AND AFRICA	ASIA PACIFICASIA PACIFICBrazil  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 19% China  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 16% India  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 38% Russia  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 21% total .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . %	AMERICAS	AMERICAS. . . and record cash performance. Cash generated from every dollar of revenue has  increased 18 percent since 2003 . net cash from operations, excluding global Financing receivables(Dollars in billions).  and that has enabled us to invest in future sources of growth and provide record return to investors . . .Primary uses of cash over the Past Five Years. . . while continuing to invest in  r&d — more than $8 billion over the past five years.
 	Chairman’s Letterfocused on China or India or Brazil or Ireland. They are leading integrated global operations.   In addition to integrating the entire company globally, we are investing to extend our leadership within the  fastest-growing markets. We have tripled the number of people working in or serving markets such as China, India, Brazil and Russia in the past four years. Our business there, excluding PCs, grew 21 percent last year. Over the next four years, we expect these markets to grow at more than two times the worldwide rate, with an opportunity of more than $150 billion by 2010.   In the May / June 2006 issue of the public policy journal Foreign Affairs, I described our point of view on the globally integrated enterprise, and this idea has struck a chord with many leaders around the world. We are now working actively across IBM’s broad ecosystem to explore the promise — and challenges — of this new model. We believe it offers hope for a new kind of globalization, one that not only generates vast new opportunity, but that also vastly expands the chances for all people on the planet to share in it. a diStinctive WaY oF thinkingTo many of us, IBM’s transformation of the past few years, while dramatic, has not felt unfamiliar. For me and others in my generation, the experience has not been one of entering uncharted waters, but of returning to a pace of change, a level of impact and a type of thinking that drew us to this company in the first place. And its origins go back a long way.   For nearly a century, businesses, institutions and  individuals have sought a relationship with IBM because of this company’s unique ability to conceptualize opportunities, to analyze developments and to reimagine how the world could work. For nearly a century, literally millions of women and men have been drawn here to be part of an enterprise that above all grounded itself in lasting values, and that valued, above all, the capacity of its people to think.   Today, those values and that kind of thinking are deepening and taking on more and more exciting new forms. One example in 2006 was InnovationJam — an open brainstorming event on IBM’s worldwide intranet that engaged more than 150,000 IBMers, their family members, IBM clients and partners from business and academia. We shared a few of our “crown jewels,” some of the latest technologies from IBM’s labs. Then, together, we explored how these new capabilities might be applied to urgent needs — from the environment, to healthcare, to small global business, to the emergence of a “3-D Internet” — and how those possibilities might spawn new high-growth businesses.   We have assigned senior business owners to develop  10 of the most promising ideas, and we’ve stripped away process so they can move quickly. We also gave them a pool  of $100 million in development funds to get them started. The important point in this is that when you commit yourself to innovation that matters, you free up talented people  to try new things — new approaches, new partnerships, new markets. That is, you ask them to think.   To capture some of the essential elements of IBM’s  way of working, collaborating and approaching problems, we have created a companion piece for this year’s annual report. It is entitled, appropriately enough, tHInk. For  all IBM investors — and for anyone who is considering a relationship with our company, either as a client, a partner, an employee, or a neighbor — an understanding of what makes IBM tick is essential in gauging our prospects for the century ahead.    As we enter this new era of technology, business and global society, I am proud of the worldwide IBM team for bringing us to this point, and I am grateful to you, our shareholders, for your support in our journey. I hope and trust that you are pleased with how your company is  growing and evolving. My colleagues and I are excited by the possibilities for how, together with our clients, our partners and you, we can bring this remarkable enterprise into its next phase of leadership and discovery.Samuel J. PalmisanoChairman, President and Chief Executive OfficerThe selected references in this letter to the company’s financial results: (1) excluding the effects of the divestiture of the company’s PC business, (2) excluding non-recurring items, and (3) excluding the Global Financing business are non-GAAP financial measures, as is the reference to return on invested capital (ROIC), and these references are made to facilitate a comparative view of the company’s ongoing operational performance. Additional information on the use of these non-GAAP financial measures is provided in the company’s Form 8-K submitted to the SEC on January 18, 2007 (Attachment II — Non-GAAP Supplementary Materials) and in the company’s 2006 Annual Report (Management Discussion and Analysis — Year in Review and Looking Forward — Liquidity and Capital Resources).
Financial?HigHligHtsinternational?business?macHines?corporation?and?(Dollars in millions except per share amounts)For the year 	 	 	 	 	 2006 2005Revenue 	 	 	 	 $?91,424		$	91,134Income from continuing operations 	 	 	 	 $??9,416		$		7,994Income/(loss) from discontinued operations 	 	 	 	 76	(24)Income before cumulative effect of change in accounting principle 	 	 	 9,492	7,970Cumulative effect of change in accounting principle**  	 	 	 —	(36)Net income 	 	 	 	 $??9,492 	$		7,934Earnings/(loss) per share of common stock: 	Assuming dilution: 	 	Continuing operations 	 	 	 	 $???6.06		$			4.91 	 	Discontinued operations 	 	 	 	 0.05	(0.01) 	 	Before cumulative effect of change in accounting principle 	 	 	 6.11	4.90 	 	Cumulative effect of change in accounting principle** 	 	 	 —	(0.02)Total  	 	 	 	 $???6.11 $			 	Basic: 	 	Continuing operations 	 	 	 	 $???6.15		$			4.99 	 	Discontinued operations 	 	 	 	 0.05	(0.02) 	 	Before cumulative effect of change in accounting principle 	 	 	 6.20	 	 	Cumulative effect of change in accounting principle** 	 	 	 —	(0.02)Total  	 	 	 	 $???6.20 	$			4.96Net cash provided by operating activities from continuing operations  	 	 $?15,019		$	14,914Capital expenditures, net 	 	 	 	 4,737	3,527Share repurchase 	 	 	 	 8,084	7,739Cash dividends paid on common stock 	 	 	 	 1,683	1,250 	Per share of common stock 	 	 	 	 1.10	0.78at year end 	 	 	 	 	 2006 2005Cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities 	 	 	 	 $?10,657		$	13,686Total assets 	 	 	 	 103,234	105,748Working capital 	 	 	 	 4,569	10,509Total debt 	 	 	 	 22,682	22,641Stockholders’ equity 	 	 	 	 28,506	33,098Common shares outstanding (in millions) 	 	 	 	 1,506	1,574Market capitalization  	 	 	 	 $146,355	$129,381Stock price per common share 	 	 	 	 $??97.15		$		82.20Number of employees in IBM/wholly owned subsidiaries 	 	 	 355,766	329,3734.87*4.98**	Does	not	total	due	to	rounding.**	Reflects	implementation	of	FASB	Interpretation	No.	47.	See	note	B,	“Accounting	Changes,”	on	page	72	for	additional	information.
 	 	 
report?oF?Financials?business?macHines?corporation?and?subsidiary?companiesnotes?to?consolidated??Financial?statements a Significant Accounting Policies 	 62  b Accounting Changes 	 71  c Acquisitions/Divestitures 	 73  d Financial Instruments (excluding derivatives)  	 78  e Inventories 	 79 F Financing Receivables 	 79  g Plant, Rental Machines and Other Property  	 79 H Investments and Sundry Assets 	80  i 	Intangible Assets Including Goodwill 	80  J 	Securitization of Receivables 	81management?discussion?? 	Road Map  12 	Forward-Looking and Cautionary Statements  13 	Management Discussion Snapshot  14 	Description of Business  15 	Year in Review  22 	Prior Year in Review  37 	Discontinued Operations   41   	Other Information   41 	 	Looking Forward 41 	 	Liquidity and Capital Resources 43 	 	Critical Accounting Estimates 45 	 	Currency Rate Fluctuations 47 	 	Market Risk 47 	 	Financing Risks 48 	 	Employees and Related Workforce  48 	Global Financing  49report?oF?management?report?oF?independent??registered?public?54accounting?Firm?consolidated?Financial??statements?55 	Earnings  56 	Financial Position  57 	Cash Flows  58 	Stockholders’ Equity  59 K Borrowings 	81  l Derivatives and Hedging Transactions 	83  m Other Liabilities 	87  n Stockholders’ Equity Activity 	88  o Contingencies and Commitments 	89  p Taxes 	92 Q Research, Development and Engineering  93  r 2005 Actions 	 93  s Earnings Per Share of Common Stock 95  t Rental Expense and Lease Commitments 96  u Stock-Based Compensation  96  V Retirement-Related Benefits  100  W Segment Information  111  X Subsequent Events  115FiVe-year?comparison?oF??selected?Financial?data?	116 selected?Quarterly?data?	117 perFormance?grapHs?	118board?oF?directors?and??senior?eXecutiVe?oFFicers?	120 stocKHolder?inFormation?	121
road?mapthe? financial? section? of? the?international?business?machines?corporation?(ibm?or?the?company)?2006?annual?report,?consisting?of this Management Discussion, the Consolidated Financial Statements that follow and the notes related thereto, comprises 108 pages of information. This Road Map is designed to provide the reader with some perspective regarding the information contained in the financial section. ibm’s?business?modelThe company’s business model is built to support two principal goals: helping clients succeed in delivering business value by becoming more innovative, efficient and competitive through the use of business insight and information technology (IT) solutions; and providing long-term value to shareholders. In addition to these goals, the company is committed to its employees and the communities in which it operates.  In support of these objectives, the business model has been developed over time through strategic investments in capabilities and technologies that have the best long-term growth and profitability prospects based on the value they deliver to clients. The company’s strategy is to focus on the high-growth, high-value segments of the IT industry. The company’s broad capabilities include services, software, hardware, fundamental research, financing and the component technologies used to build larger systems. These global capabilities are combined to provide business insight and solutions in the enterprise computing space. The business model is flexible, and allows for periodic rebalancing. In 2006, 13 acquisitions were completed, all focused on expanding the company’s software and services capabilities, at an aggregate cost of approximately $4.8 billion. In January 2007, the company announced its intent to form a joint venture with Ricoh Company based on the company’s Printing Systems business. The business model, supported by the company’s long-term financial model, enables the company to deliver consistently strong earnings, cash flows and high returns on invested capital in changing economic environments.transparencytransparency?is?a?primary?goal?of?successful?financialreporting.?the?following?are?the?key?elements?found?in?this?year’s?annual?report.• The	company,	in	accordance	with	Section	404	of	the	Sarbanes-Oxley	Act	of	2002,	conducted	an	evaluation	of	its	internal	control	over	financial	reporting	and	concluded	that	the	internal	control	over	financial	reporting	was	effective	as	of	December	31,	2006.• The	Management	Discussion	is	designed	to	provide	readers	with	a		view	of	the	company’s	results	and	certain	factors	that	may	affect	future	prospects	from	the	perspective	of	the	company’s	management.	Within	the	“Management	Discussion	Snapshot,”	on	pages	14	to	15,	the	key	messages	and	details	will	give	readers	the	ability	to	quickly	assess	the	most	important	drivers	of	performance	within	this	brief	overview.• The	Management	Discussion	reflects	the	company’s	continued	and	improving	strength	in	providing	client-	and	industry-specific	solutions	utilizing	its	broad	capabilities.	The	sections	on	“Description	of	the	Business”	on	page	15,	“Results	of	Continuing	Operations”	on	page	22,	“Financial	Position”	on	page	32,	and	“Looking	Forward”	on	page	41,	are	all	written	from	the	perspective	of	the	consolidated	entity.	Detailed	analysis	for	each	of	the	company’s	segments	is	also	included	and	appears	on	pages	29	to	32.• Global	Financing	is	a	business	segment	within	the	company	that	is	measured	as	if	it	were	a	standalone	entity.	A	separate	“Global	Financing”	section	beginning	on	page	49	is	not	included	in	the	consolidated	perspective	that	is	referred	to	above.	This	section	is	separately		presented	given	this	segment’s	unique	impact	on	the	company’s	financial	condition	and	leverage.• Effective	December	31,	2006,	the	company	adopted	the	provisions		of	Statement	of	Financial	Accounting	Standards	(SFAS)	No.	158,	“Employer’s	Accounting	for	Defined	Benefit	Pension	and	Other	Postretirement	Plans,	an	amendment	to	FASB	Statements	No.	87,		88,	106,	and	132(R).”	SFAS	No.	158	requires	that	the	funded	status	of	the	company’s	pension	and	nonpension	postretirement	benefit	plans		be	recognized	as	an	asset	or	a	liability	in	the	Consolidated	Statement	of	Financial	Position,	the	recognition	of	any	changes	in	that	funded	status	in	the	year	in	which	the	changes	occur	and	the	recognition	of	previously	
management?discussion?........................................................12?	Road	Map	............................................................................. 12	Forward-Looking	and	Cautionary	Statements	..................... 13	Management	Discussion	Snapshot	...................................... 14 	Description	of	Business	....................................................... 15
unrecognized	gains/(losses),	prior	service	costs/(credits)	and	transition	assets	as	a	component	of	Accumulated	gains	and	(losses)	not	affecting	retained	earnings	in	the	Consolidated	Statement	of	Stockholders’	Equity.	The	adoption	of	SFAS	No.	158	had	a	significant	non-cash	impact	on	the	company’s	reported	financial	position	and	stockholders’	equity,	reducing	equity	by	$9.5	billion,	net	of	tax.	The	adoption	of	SFAS	No.	158	had	no	impact	on	the	company’s	existing	debt	covenants,	credit	ratings	
or	financial	flexibility.	See	note	V,	“Retirement-Related	Benefits,”	on	pages	100	to	111	for	additional	information,	including	the	incremental	effect	on	the	Consolidated	Statement	of	Financial	Position.• The	company	divested	its	Personal	Computing	business	to	Lenovo	on	April	30,	2005.	The	details	of	this	significant	transaction	are	discussed	in	note	C,	“Acquisitions/Divestitures,”	on	pages	77	and	78.	As	a		result	of	this	divestiture,	the	company’s	reported	financial	results	do	not	include	any	activity	in	2006	and	include	four	months	of	activity	for	the	Personal	Computing	Division	in	2005	as	compared	to	12	months	in	2004.	This	lack	of	comparable	periods	has	a	material	impact	on	the	company’s	reported	revenue	growth.	Therefore,	in	the	Management	Discussion,	within	the	“Year	in	Review”	section	on	pages	22	to	25	and	the	“Prior	Year	in	Review”	section	on	pages	37	and	38,	the	company	has	presented	an	analysis	of	revenue	both	on	an	as-reported	basis		and	on	a	basis	that	excludes	the	revenue	from	the	divested	Personal	Computing	business	from	both	the	2005	and	2004	periods.	The	company	believes	that	the	analysis	that	excludes	the	Personal	Computing	revenue	is	a	better	indicator	of	the	company’s	operational	revenue		performance	on	an	ongoing	basis.• IBM	made	changes	to	its	management	system	effective	as	of	the	first	quarter	of	2006.	In	accordance	with	SFAS	No.	131,	“Disclosures	about	Segments	of	an	Enterprise	and	Related	Information,”	these	changes	impacted	the	company’s	reportable	segments	and	resulted	in	the	reclassification	of	certain	revenue	and	cost	within	its	Consolidated	Statement	of	Earnings	from	previously	reported	information.	See	note	W,	“Segment	Information,”	on	page	111	for	additional	information	on	the	changes	in	reportable	segments.	These	changes	did	not	impact	IBM’s	total	revenue,	cost,	expense,	net	income,	earnings	per	share,	Consolidated	Statement	of	Financial	Position	or	Consolidated	Statement	of	Cash	Flows	from	previously	reported	information.	The	Consolidated	Statement	of	Earnings	on	page	56	reflects	these	changes	for	all	periods	presented.• The	reference	to	constant	currency	in	the	Management	Discussion	is	made	so	that	certain	financial	results	can	be	viewed	without	the	impacts	of	changing	foreign	currency	exchange	rates	and	therefore	facilitates	a	comparative	view	of	business	growth.	See	“Currency	Rate	Fluctuations”	on	page	47	for	additional	information.• Within	the	financial	tables	in	this	Annual	Report,	certain	columns	and	rows	may	not	add	due	to	the	use	of	rounded	numbers	for	disclosure	purposes.	Percentages	reported	in	the	financial	tables	throughout	this	Annual	Report	are	calculated	from	the	underlying	whole-dollar	numbers.	management?discussion?business?macHines?corporation?and?subsidiary?companiesHelpFul?Hintsorganization?of?information• This	Management	Discussion	section	provides	the	reader	of	the	financial	statements	with	a	narrative	on	the	company’s	financial	results.	It	contains	the	results	of	operations	for	each	segment	of		the	business,	followed	by	a	description	of	the	company’s	financial	position,	as	well	as	certain	employee	data.	It	is	useful	to	read	the	Management	Discussion	in	conjunction	with	note	W,	“Segment	Information,”	on	pages	111	to	115.• Pages	56	through	61	include	the	Consolidated	Financial	Statements.	These	statements	provide	an	overview	of	the	company’s	income	and	cash	flow	performance	and	its	financial	position.	• The	notes	follow	the	Consolidated	Financial	Statements.	Among	other	things,	the	notes	contain	the	company’s	accounting	policies	(pages	62	to	71),	acquisitions	and	divestitures	(pages	73	to	78),	detailed	information	on	specific	items	within	the	financial	statements,	certain	contingencies	and	commitments	(pages	89	to	92),	and	the	results	of	each	IBM	segment	(pages	111	to	115).discontinued?operationson?december?31,?2002,?the?company?sold?its?hard?disk?drive?(Hdd)?business?to?Hitachi,?ltd.?(Hitachi). The HDD business was accounted for as a discontinued operation under generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) which requires that the income statement and cash flow information be reformatted to separate the divested business from the company’s continuing operations. See page 41 for additional information. ForWard-looKing?and??cautionary?statementscertain?statements?contained?in?this?annual?report?may?constitute?forward-looking?statements?within?the?meaning?of?the?private?Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements involve a number of risks, uncertainties and other factors that could cause actual results to be materially different, as discussed more fully elsewhere in this Annual Report and in the company’s filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), including the company’s 2006 Form 10-K filed on February 27, 2007.
management?discussion?snapsHot(Dollars and shares in millions except per share amounts)	        yr. to yr.Percent/ MarginFor the year ended deceMber 31: 2006 2005 changeRevenue $?91,424	$	91,134	0.3Gross profit margin 41.9%	40.1%	1.8	Total expense and  	other income $?24,978	$	24,306	2.8Total expense and other  	income to revenue ratio 27.3%	26.7%	0.7	Income from continuing  	operations before   	income taxes $?13,317	$	12,226	8.9Provision for income taxes $??3,901	$		4,232	(7.8	)Income from continuing  	operations $??9,416	$		7,994	17.8Earnings per share of  	common stock: 	Assuming dilution: 	 Continuing operations $???6.06	$			4.91	23.4 	 Discontinued operations 0.05	(0.01)	NM 	 Cumulative effect  	  of change in  	  accounting principle —	(0.02)	NMTotal $???6.11	$			4.87	25.5Weighted-average shares  	outstanding:  	Diluted 1,553.5	1,627.6	(4.6	)Assets** $103,234	$105,748	(2.4	)Liabilities** $?74,728	$	72,650	2.9Equity** $?28,506	$	33,098	(13.9	)   %* pts.%pts.%%%%%%%% %*	Flat	when	adjusted	for	currency.**	At	December	31.NM—Not	meaningfulcontinuing?operationsthe?company’s?2006?performance?was?the?result of?a?series?of?actions?taken?over?the?last?several?years?to?steadily?transform?the?company. The company has divested of businesses that are commoditizing, while investing in targeted acquisitions to continue to build capabilities in higher value areas. The company has also been focused on increasing productivity, to expand margins and improve efficiency. In addition, it has accelerated its move to become a globally integrated company. These actions have resulted in a more balanced mix of businesses and a stronger, more competitive and sustainable global business. The company’s 2006 financial results reflect this improved business model. 	The company divested its Personal Computing business on April 30, 2005. Therefore, the company’s reported results for 2006 do not include any activity for the Personal Computing Division, while the results for 2005 include four months of activity. Total revenue, as reported, increased 0.3 percent versus 2005; excluding the Personal Computing business external revenue from 2005, total 2006 revenue increased 3.6 percent (3.2 percent adjusted for currency). Pre-tax income from continuing operations grew 8.9 percent, while diluted earnings per share from continuing operations increased 23.4 percent compared to 2005. Income from continuing operations increased 17.8 percent compared to 2005, benefiting from an improved effective tax rate year to year. Net cash provided by operating activities was $15,019 million.  	The increase in revenue, excluding the Personal Computing business, in 2006 as compared to 2005, was primarily due to:• Improved	demand	in	the	software	business,	driven	by	Key	Branded	Middleware	products,	with	positive	contributions	from	key	acquisitions;• Increased	demand	in	the	hardware	business	driven	by	Microelectronics,	System	z	and	Storage;	growth	in	System	x	and	Retail	Store		Solutions;	and	• Continued	growth	in	emerging	countries	(up	21	percent)	and	solid	performance	in	the	Americas	and	Europe/Middle	East/Africa	geographies.	The increase in income from continuing operations before income taxes in 2006 as compared to 2005 was primarily due to:• Revenue	growth	in	the	Software	segment	as	discussed	above;	• Continued	execution	of	the	company’s	productivity	initiatives	driving	improved	Global	Services	gross	margins;	andmanagement?discussion?........................................................12?	Road	Map	............................................................................. 12 •	Revenue	growth	and	continued	operational	improvement	in	the		Forward-Looking	and	Cautionary	Statements	..................... 13 Microelectronics	business.	Management	Discussion	Snapshot	...................................... 14	Description	of	Business	....................................................... 15
 The consolidated gross profit margin increased 1.8 points to 41.9 percent versus 2005. An improvement in the Hardware margin (1.9 points) contributed 0.6 points to the overall margin improvement. This increase was driven by the sale and resulting absence of the lower margin Personal Computing business. In addition, the Global Services margin improved 1.5 points versus 2005 to 27.5 percent. This increase was driven by several factors: the restructuring actions taken in the second quarter of 2005 to improve cost competitiveness, improved utilization levels and ongoing productivity initiatives. The Software margin increased slightly. The Global Financing margin declined 4.4 points versus 2005 to 50.3 percent primarily driven by higher borrowing costs. This decline had an immaterial impact on the company’s overall margin due to the size of the segment.  Total expense and other income increased 2.8 percent in 2006 versus 2005. The increase was primarily due to the company’s investments in acquisitions and investments the company is making in its software and services businesses and emerging markets.  The provision for income taxes resulted in an effective tax rate of 29.3 percent for 2006, compared with the 2005 effective tax rate of 34.6 percent. The 5.3 point decrease in the 2006 effective tax rate was primarily attributable to the net effect of several items. In 2006, the tax rate was favorably impacted by the absence of the foreign earnings repatriation-related tax charge recorded in the third quarter of 2005 (4.3 points) as well as a benefit from the fourth-quarter 2006 settlement of the U.S. federal income tax audit for the years 2001 through 2003 (3.0 points). These benefits were partially offset by a one-time tax cost associated with the 2006 intercompany transfer of certain intellectual property (4.3 points). The remaining items were individually insignificant. Total Assets declined approximately $2.5 billion ($6.2 billion adjusted for currency) primarily due to lower prepaid pension assets ($10.0 billion) and a decrease in Cash and cash equivalents ($4.5 billion). These decreases were partially offset by increases in Goodwill ($3.4 billion), long-term deferred tax assets ($2.0 billion), Marketable securities ($1.9 billion), trade receivables ($1.2 billion), financing receivables ($1.8 billion) and Intangible assets ($0.5 billion).  The increase in Total Liabilities of $2.1 billion (down $0.4 billion adjusted for currency) was primarily driven by Compensation and benefits ($1.3 billion), Deferred income ($1.3 billion) and Accounts payable ($0.6 billion). These increases were partially offset by decreases in long-term deferred tax liabilities ($1.0 billion) and restructuring liabilities ($0.4 billion). Total debt of $22.7 billion was essentially flat versus 2005.management?discussion?business?macHines?corporation?and?subsidiary?companies The decrease in Stockholders’ Equity was primarily driven by retirement-related charges ($7.6 billion) and net common stock transactions ($5.4 billion), partially offset by increased Retained earnings ($7.7 billion). The retirement-related driven decrease in Stockholders’ Equity and the decrease in prepaid pension assets were as a result of the company’s adoption of SFAS No. 158. See note V, “RetirementRelated Benefits,” on pages 100 to 111 for additional information. Global Services signings were $49 billion in 2006 as compared to $47 billion in 2005. The Global Services backlog is estimated to be $116 billion at December 31, 2006, versus $111 billion at December 31, 2005.  For additional information, see the “Year in Review” section on pages 22 through 36. Looking forward, the company’s long-term financial model objective is to generate 10 to 12 percent earnings per share growth over the long term through a combination of revenue growth, productivitydriven margin improvement and effective capital deployment for acquisitions and returns to shareholders through dividends and common stock repurchases. The company’s ability to meet these objectives depends on a number of factors, including those outlined on page 21 and on pages 89 to 92.description?oF?businessPlease	refer	to	IBM’s	Annual	Report	on	Form	10-K	filed	on	February	27,	2007,	with	the	SEC	for	a	more	detailed	version	of	this	Description	of	Business,	especially	Item	1A.	entitled	“Risk	Factors.”ibm?is?a?globally?integrated?innovation?company,?serving?the?needs?of?enterprises?and?institutions?worldwide. The company seeks to be a partner in its clients’ success by enabling their own capacity to innovate, so that they may differentiate themselves for competitive advantage in a globalized economy. IBM views enterprise innovation not only in terms of products and services, but across all dimensions of a business: its business processes, business model, management systems, culture and role in society. To help clients achieve growth, effectiveness, efficiency and the realization of greater value through innovation, IBM draws upon the world’s leading systems, software and services capabilities. ibm’s?strategy the?company?has?divested?low?growth?commoditizing?product?lines?and?acquired?higher?value?opportunities?to?leverage?ibm’sinfrastructure.IT INDUSTRY LANDSCAPEBusiness ValueInfrastructure ValueHardware  Software  ServicesComponent Value	PRE 2004	2004	2005	2006PwCCDaksh Maersk ITCorio EquitantViacoreLotusTivoliRationalInformixSector7Access360Logical NetworksCyaneaCandleTrigo TechVeneticaSchlumbergerHealthlinkSRDAscentialDWLDataPowerIsogonCollationMeiosysMicromuseFileNetMROCIMS LabsLanguage    Analysis SystemUnicornREMBOBuildForgeNetworkHDDDRAMDisplaysEDI Services 4xx Power PCWebifyISSPCsIn IBM’s view, the future of business is being shaped by the forces of global integration and innovation. They are foundational and intimately related to one another. A globally integrated enterprise is a new institutional form that shapes its strategy, management and operations globally, based on economics, expertise and open business environments. It is optimized for innovation in a worldwide economy and society that are increasingly integrated and specialized. IBM’s strategic moves over the past several years—from divestitures and acquisitions, to areas of focus for innovation, to the transformation of its core lines of business—have been shaped by this vision.management?discussion?........................................................12?	Road	Map	............................................................................. 12 	Forward-Looking	and	Cautionary	Statements	..................... 13 	Management	Discussion	Snapshot	...................................... 14IBM’s strategic priorities to pursue this vision include:• offering?enterprises?in?the?global?economy?innovative,?highvalue?solutions	based on IBM’s ability to integrate technology and business model innovation to deliver measurable results for IBM and its clients;• leading?in?the?delivery?of?business?value by providing business and information technology consulting and implementation services; building, running and maintaining cross-industry and industry-specific business process services; leveraging leadership technology and engineering services; and accelerating increased business value through Service Oriented Architectures (SOA) and Information on Demand;• leading?in?the?delivery?of?advanced?infrastructure through enterprise SOA and infrastructure software and services; increased share leadership in servers; driving to leadership in storage; and leading the transition to standardized services offerings; and• making?ibm?the?premier?globally?integrated?enterprise—lowering costs and increasing effectiveness by integrating the company’s decision making at the point of client contact (“lowering IBM’s center of gravity”); moving work to where it can best be performed; focusing IBM’s resources to create the greatest value; and excelling in business collaboration.
	Description	of	Business	....................................................... 15
engineering &businessstrategicibM’s capabilities	systems and financingto execute its strategy, ibM’s business comprises three principal systeMs business segments: servers. IBM systems using IBM operating systems (System z and • Systems	and	Financing System i), as well as AIX, the IBM UNIX operating system (System p and BladeCenter) and the Microsoft Windows operating system • Software	(System x and BladeCenter). All servers can also run Linux, a key • Services	open source operating system.storage. Data storage products, including disk, tape, optical and storage area networks (SAN).
Microelectronics. Semiconductor design and manufacturing of customized products including microprocessors, application specific integrated circuits and standard products for IBM systems and external clients.engineering and technology services (e&ts). System and component design services, strategic outsourcing of clients’ design teams, and technology and manufacturing consulting services.printing systems. Production print solutions, on demand print-related solutions, enterprise workgroup print technologies, print management software, services and maintenance.retail store solutions. Point-of-sale retail systems, software and solutions.financingcommercial financing. Short-term inventory and accounts receivable financing to dealers and remarketers of IT products. client financing. Lease and loan financing to external and internal clients for terms generally between two and seven years.remarketing. The sale and lease of used equipment (primarily sourced from the conclusion of lease transactions) to new or existing clients. softwareinformation Management software. Advanced database, content management and information integration software that helps companies integrate, manage and gain value from their business information.lotus software. Collaboration, messaging and social networking software that enables businesses to communicate, collaborate and increase productivity.rational software. Software and process automation tools that help clients manage the business process of software and systems delivery.tivoli software. Software for infrastructure management, including security and storage management that will help organizations better manage their IT infrastructure to more effectively deliver IT services. websphere software. Provides the foundation for Web-enabled applications and is a key product set in deploying a Service Oriented Architecture. Management of a wide variety of business processes using open standards to interconnect applications, data and operating systems.product lifecycle Management (plM). Software that enables clients to improve their product development processes and their ability to use product-related information across their businesses.operating systems. Software engines that manage the fundamental processes that make computers run.servicesbusiness process services (bps). A range of offerings from standardized processing platforms and Business Process Outsourcing (BPO) through Business Transformation Outsourcing (BTO) that delivers improved business results to clients through the strategic change and/or operation of the client’s business processes, applications and infrastructure.consulting and systems integration (c&si). Delivery of value to clients through consulting services for client-relationship management, financial management, human capital, business strategy and change and supply-chain management.strategic outsourcing services (so). Comprehensive IT services integrated with business insight working with clients to reduce costs and improve productivity through the outsourcing of processes and operations.integrated technology services (its). Services offerings that help clients access, manage and support their technology infrastructures, through a combination of skilled resources, software and IBM’s knowledge of business processes.Maintenance. A number of support services from product maintenance through solution support to maintain and improve the availability of clients’ IT infrastructure.application Management services (aMs). Application develop-
Management Discussion ........................................................12 	Road	Map	............................................................................. 12 	Forward-Looking	and	Cautionary	Statements	..................... 13 	Management	Discussion	Snapshot	...................................... 14	Description	of	Business	....................................................... 15ment, management, maintenance and support services for packaged software, as well as custom and legacy applications.applications on Demand (aoD). Solutions for the management of clients’ Web-based infrastructure and business applications, as well as a growing portfolio of industry-specific independent software vendor (ISV) solutions that are delivered as a service.business segMentsorganizationally, the company’s major operations comprise a global technology services segment; a Global Business Services segment; a Systems and Technology Group segment; a Software segment; and a Global Financing segment. global services is a critical component of the company’s strategy of providing insight and solutions to clients. While solutions often include industry-leading IBM software and hardware, other suppliers’ products are also used if a client solution requires it. Contracts for IBM services—commonly referred to as “signings”—can range from less than one year to over 10 years. Within Global Services there are two reportable segments: Global Technology Services and Global Business Services.global technology services (gts) segment primarily reflects infrastructure services, delivering value through the company’s global scale, standardization and automation. It includes outsourcing services, Integrated Technology Services and Maintenance.global business services (gbs) segment primarily reflects professional services, delivering business value and innovation to clients through solutions which leverage industry- and business-process expertise. It includes consulting, systems integration and Application Management Services.systems and technology group provides IBM’s clients with business solutions requiring advanced computing power and storage capabilities. Approximately 55 percent of the Systems and Technology Group’s server and storage sales transactions are through business partners; approximately 45 percent are direct to end-user clients, more than half of which are through the Internet at ibm.com. In addition, the Group provides leading semiconductor technology and products, packaging solutions and engineering technology services to clients and for IBM’s own advanced technology needs. While not reported as external revenue, hardware is also deployed to support services solutions.software consists primarily of middleware and operating systems software. Middleware software enables clients to integrate systems, processes and applications across a standard software platform. IBM middleware is designed to open standards which allows the efficient integration of disparate client applications that may have been built internally, or provided by package software vendors or system integrators. Operating systems are the software engines that run computers. In addition, Software includes Product Lifecycle Management software which primarily serves the Industrial sector. Approximately 25 percent of software transactions are sold through business partners. Also, 50 percent of external software revenue relates to one-time charge (OTC) arrangements, whereby the client pays one up-front payment for a perpetual license. The remaining annuity-based revenue consists of both maintenance revenue sold with OTC arrangements, as well as revenue from software sold on a recurring license charge arrangement. Typically, arrangements for the sale of OTC software include one year of maintenance. The client can also purchase ongoing maintenance after the first year, which includes product upgrades and technical support. While not reported as external revenue, software is also deployed to support services solutions.global financing is described on pages 49 through 53. ibM worlDwiDe organizationsthe following three companywide organizations play key roles in ibM’s delivery of value to its clients:• Sales	&	Distribution	Organization	and	related	sales	channels• Research,	Development	and	Intellectual	Property• Integrated	Supply	Chainsales & Distribution organizationWith a comprehensive knowledge of IBM’s business and infrastructure solutions, as well as the products, technologies and services IBM and its business partners offer, the company’s global client teams gain a deep understanding of each client’s organizational, infrastructure and industry-specific needs to determine the best approach for addressing their critical business and IT challenges. These professionals work in integrated teams with IBM consultants and technology representatives, combining their deep skills and expertise to deliver high-value solutions that address clients’ pain points and innovational aspirations. To facilitate its access to clients and local markets and to improve productivity, the Sales & Distribution organization utilizes geographic organizations in the Americas, Europe/Middle East/Africa (EMEA) and Asia Pacific geographies. This structure enables resources and decision making to be closer to the clients. The majority of IBM’s revenue, excluding the company’s original equipment manufacturer (OEM) technology business, occurs in industries that are broadly grouped into six sectors:• Financial	Services:	Banking,	Financial	Markets,	Insurance• Public:	Education,	Government,	Healthcare,	Life	Sciences• Industrial:	Aerospace	and	Defense,	Automotive,	Chemical	and		Petroleum,	Electronics• Distribution:	Consumer	Products,	Retail,	Travel	and	Transportation	• Communications:	Telecommunications,	Media	and	Entertainment,		Energy	and	Utilities• Small	and	Medium	Business:	Mainly	companies	with	less	than		1,000	employees
internal routes-to-Marketservices consultants focus on selling end-to-end solutions for large, complex business challenges.hardware and software brand specialists sell IBM products as parts of discrete technology decisions and as part of broader client solutions.ibm.com provides fast, easy access to IBM’s product and business expertise via the Web and telephone. In addition, ibm.com identifies business opportunities for all of IBM’s routes to market and provides online and telephone sales of standard hardware, software, services and financing for all-size companies. business partners routes-to-Marketglobal/major independent software vendors (isvs). ISVs deliver business-process or industry-specific applications and, in doing so, often influence the sale of IBM hardware, middleware and services.global/major systems integrators (sis). SIs identify business problems and design solutions when IBM Global Services is not the preferred systems integrator; they also sell computing infrastructures from IBM and its competitors.regional isvs and sis. SIs identify the business problems, and ISVs deliver business process or industry-specific applications to medium-sized and large businesses requiring IBM computing infrastructure offerings.solutions providers, resellers and distributors. Resellers sell IBM platforms and value-added services as part of a discrete technology platform decision to clients wanting third-party assistance.research, Development and intellectual propertyIBM’s research and development (R&D) operations differentiate IBM from its competitors. IBM annually spends approximately $6 billion for R&D, focusing its investments in high-growth, high-value opportunities. In 2006, the company’s investment in R&D was approximately 15 percent of its combined hardware and software revenue. As a result of innovations in these and other areas, IBM was once again awarded more U.S. patents in 2006 than any other company. This marks the 14th year in a row that IBM achieved this distinction. In addition to producing world-class hardware and software products, IBM innovations are a major differentiator in providing solutions for the company’s clients through its growing services activities. The company’s investments in R&D also result in intellectual property (IP) income of approximately $1 billion annually. Some of IBM’s technological breakthroughs are used exclusively in IBM products, while others are licensed and may be used in either/both IBM products and/or the products of the licensee. In addition to these IP income sources, the company also generates value from its patent portfolio through cross-licensing arrangements and IP licensed in divestiture transactions. The value of these transactions is not readily apparent in the Consolidated Statement of Earnings, because income on cross-licensing arrangements is recorded only to the extent that cash is received. The value received for IP involving the sale of a business is included in the overall gain or loss from the divestiture, not in the separately presented IP income amounts on the Consolidated Statement of Earnings.integrated supply chainJust as IBM works to transform its clients’ supply chains for greater efficiency and responsiveness to global market conditions, the company continues to derive business value from its own globally integrated supply chain, reinvented as a strategic advantage for the company to create value for clients and shareholders. IBM leverages its supply-chain expertise for clients through its supply-chain business transformation outsourcing service to optimize and help run clients’ end-to-end supply-chain processes, from procurement to logistics.  IBM spends approximately $36 billion annually through its supply chain, procuring materials and services around the world. The company’s supply, manufacturing and logistics and customer fulfillment operations are integrated in one operating unit that has reduced inventories, improved response to marketplace opportunities and external risks and converted fixed to variable costs. Simplifying and streamlining internal processes has improved operations, sales force productivity and processes, and these actions have improved client 
Management Discussion ........................................................12 	Road	Map	............................................................................. 12 	Forward-Looking	and	Cautionary	Statements	..................... 13 	Management	Discussion	Snapshot	...................................... 14	Description	of	Business	....................................................... 1522374141satisfaction when working with the company. Since some of the cost savings this unit generates are passed along to clients, they will not always result in a visible gross margin improvement in the company’s Consolidated Statement of Earnings. IBM is continuing to apply the supply-chain principles of product manufacturing and delivery to service delivery across its solutions and services lines of business.  In addition to its own manufacturing operations, the company uses a number of contract manufacturing (CM) companies around the world to manufacture IBM-designed products. The use of CM companies is intended to generate cost efficiencies and reduce time to market for certain IBM products.key business Drivers the following are some of the key drivers of the company’s business.economic environment and  corporate spending budgetsIf overall demand for systems, software and services changes, whether due to general economic conditions or a shift in corporate buying patterns, sales performance could be impacted. IBM’s diverse set of products and offerings is designed to provide more consistent results in both strong and weak economic environments. The company accomplishes this by not only having a mix of offerings with longterm cash and income streams, as well as cyclical transaction-based sales, but also by continually developing competitive products and solutions and effectively managing a skilled resource base. IBM continues to transform itself to take advantage of shifting demand trends, focusing on client- or industry-specific solutions, business performance and open standards.internal business transformation and  global integration initiativesIBM continues to drive greater productivity, flexibility and cost savings by transforming and globally integrating its own business processes and functions. In 2006, the company continued the global integration of its internal support functions—such as Legal, Finance, Human Resources, Information Technology and Real Estate Site Operations—which had been previously replicated for many of the individual countries where IBM operates. In addition to eliminating redundancies and overhead structures to drive productivity, this integration has improved IBM’s capacity to innovate by providing greater clarity of key priorities around shared goals and objectives and led to a sharper focus for the company on learning, development and knowledge sharing. The company will continue to focus on global integration initiatives to improve productivity in its integrated supply chain, service delivery and internal support functions.innovation initiativesIBM invests to improve its ability to help its clients innovate. Investment may occur in the research and development of new products and services, as well as in the establishment of new collaborative and co-creation relationships with developers, other companies and other institutions. Examples include IBM’s leadership position in the design and fabrication of game processors; the design of smaller, faster and energy-efficient semiconductor devices; and the design of “grid” computing networks that allow computers to share processing power.   Through the Global Innovation Outlook (GIO), IBM has opened up its technical and business forecasting processes to include external leaders from business, academia, the public sector, nongovernmental organizations and other influential constituents of the world community. The GIO takes a deep look at some of the most pressing issues facing the world and works toward providing solutions to those needs. In 2006, IBM also announced that it will invest $100 million over the next two years to pursue 10 new businesses generated by InnovationJam, an on-line brainstorming session which brought together more than 150,000 people from 104 countries, including IBM employees, family members, universities, business partners and clients from 67 companies. Over two 72-hour sessions, participants posted more than 46,000 ideas as they explored IBM’s most advanced research technologies and considered their application to real-world problems and emerging business opportunities.open standardsThe broad adoption of open standards is essential to the computing model for an on demand business and is a significant driver of collaborative innovation across all industries. Without interoperability among all manner of computing platforms, the integration of any client’s internal systems, applications and processes remains a monumental and expensive task. The broad-based acceptance of open standards—rather than closed, proprietary architectures—also allows the computing infrastructure to more easily absorb (and thus benefit from) new technical innovations. IBM’s support of open standards is evidenced by the enabling of its products to support open standards such as Linux, and the development of Rational software development tools, which can be used to develop and upgrade other companies’ software products.investing in growth opportunitiesThe company is continuing to refocus its business on the higher value segments of enterprise computing—providing technology and transformation services to clients’ businesses. Consistent with that focus, the company continues to significantly invest in growth opportunities as a way to drive revenue growth and market share gains. Areas of investment include strategic acquisitions, primarily in software and services, focused client- and industry-specific solutions, maintaining technology leadership and emerging growth countries such as China, Russia, India and Brazil. 
year in reviewresults of continuing operations revenue(Dollars in millions)																						Yr.	to	Yr. Percent								Yr.	to	Yr.	change								Percent	constantFor	the	Year	ended	december	31:				2006	2005	change	currencYStatement of Earnings Revenue Presentation: 	Global Services 	 	 $48,247 $47,407 1.8% 1.7 	Hardware 	 	 22,499 24,343 (7.6) (8.3) 	Software 	 	 18,204 16,830 8.2 7.5 	Global Financing 	 	 2,379 2,407 (1.1) (1.6) 	Other 	 	 94 147 (36.4) (33.4)Total				$91,424	$91,134 0.3% (0.0)(Dollars in millions)																		Yr.	to	Yr. Percent								Yr.	to	Yr.	change								Percent	constantFor	the	Year	ended	december	31:				2006	2005*	change	currencYIndustry Sector: 	Financial Services 	 	 $25,181 $24,186 4.1% 3.8 	Public 	 	 13,401 14,064 (4.7) (5.3) 	Industrial 	 	 11,535 11,699 (1.4) (1.6) 	Distribution 	 	 9,034 8,959 0.8 0.3 	Communications 	 	 8,679 8,601 0.9 0.6 	Small & Medium Business 	 	 16,981 17,597 (3.5) (3.8) 	OEM 	 	 3,856 3,271 17.9 17.9 	Other 	 	 2,756 2,757 (0.1) 0.0Total				$91,424	$91,134 0.3% (0.0)*	Reclassified	to	conform	with	2006	presentation.(Dollars in millions)																		Yr.	to	Yr. Percent								Yr.	to	Yr.	change								Percent	constantFor	the	Year	ended	december	31:				2006	2005	change	currencYGeographies: 	Americas 	 	 $39,511 $38,817 1.8% 0.8 	Europe/Middle East/Africa 	 	 30,491 30,428 0.2 (1.1) 	Asia Pacific 	 	 17,566 18,618 (5.7) (3.1) 	OEM 	 	 3,856 3,271 17.9 17.9Total				$91,424	$91,134 0.3% (0.0)%%				%%				%%Management Discussion ........................................................12 	Road	Map	............................................................................. 12 	Forward-Looking	and	Cautionary	Statements	..................... 13 	Management	Discussion	Snapshot	...................................... 14 	Description	of	Business	....................................................... 1522374141
 The company divested its Personal Computing business to Lenovo on April 30, 2005. The details of this significant transaction are discussed in note C, “Acquisitions/Divestitures”, on pages 77 and 78. As a result of this divestiture, the company’s reported financial results do not include any activity in 2006 and include four months of activity for the Personal Computing Division in 2005. This lack of comparable periods has a material impact on the company’s reported revenue growth. The company believes that a more appropriate analysis is one that excludes the revenue results of the Personal Computing Division in 2005 because it presents results on a comparable basis and provides a more meaningful focus on the company’s ongoing operational performance. Such discussion is presented on pages 24 and 25. Total revenue, as reported, increased 0.3 percent versus 2005. In addition to the revenue presentation in the Consolidated Statement of Earnings, the company also measures revenue performance on both an industry sector and geographic basis.  As-reported revenue performance by industry sector was mixed in 2006 when compared to 2005. Revenue in the Financial Services sector increased 4.1 percent versus the year-ago period, driven by Banking, which increased 7.2 percent. The Public sector revenue decline of 4.7 percent was attributable to decreased revenue in the Government (3.2 percent) and Education (25.1 percent) industries. The Industrial sector revenue decline (1.4 percent) was driven by Automotive (5.5 percent), partially offset by increased revenue in Chemical and Petroleum (12.4 percent). Revenue in the Distribution sector increased (0.8 percent) with growth in Consumer Products (5.3 percent) and the Retail industry (2.4 percent), partially offset by decreased revenue in Travel and Transportation (4.5 percent). The Communications sector revenue increase (0.9 percent) was driven by increased revenue in Utilities (9.3 percent). Revenue from Small and Medium Business decreased 3.5 percent in 2006 when compared to 2005, with revenue declines in all geographic markets. This sector was impacted most significantly by the loss of the Personal Computing business revenue.  The following geographic, regional and country-specific revenue performance excludes OEM revenue, which is presented separately.   From a geographic perspective, as-reported revenue performance was mixed in 2006 compared to 2005, with growth in the Americas and EMEA, being offset by a decrease in Asia Pacific.  Americas’ revenue increased 1.8 percent (1 percent adjusted for currency) in 2006 versus the year-ago period. Revenue increased in all regions with the U.S. up 1.0 percent, Canada 2.4 percent (decreased 4 percent adjusted for currency) and Latin America 8.6 percent (3 percent adjusted for currency). EMEA revenue increased a modest 0.2 percent on an as-reported basis (declined 1 percent adjusted for currency) in 2006 when compared to 2005. In the major countries, the U.K. increased 0.5 percent (decreased 1 percent adjusted for currency), France increased 1.6 percent (flat adjusted for currency), Italy increased 1.6 percent (flat adjusted for currency) and Spain increased 2.1 percent (flat adjusted for currency). These increases were largely offset by lower revenue in Germany of 2.8 percent (4 percent adjusted for currency) in 2006 versus the year-ago period.  Asia Pacific revenue declined 5.7 percent (3 percent adjusted for currency) year over year. Japan, which represents over 50 percent of the Asia Pacific revenue base, declined 10.1 percent (5 percent adjusted for currency). Partially offsetting the Japan decline were revenue increases in Korea 12.6 percent and India 22.9 percent.  The emerging countries of Brazil, India, Russia and China together grew 9.9 percent (5 percent adjusted for currency), as the company continues to invest to build capabilities in these countries. Brazil grew 15.4 percent (4 percent adjusted for currency), India increased 22.9 percent (26 percent adjusted for currency) and Russia increased 13.9 percent (14 percent adjusted for currency). China declined 0.3 percent (2 percent adjusted for currency) in 2006 as this country’s performance was significantly impacted by the Personal Computing divestiture.  OEM revenue increased 17.9 percent (18 percent adjusted for currency) in 2006 driven by strong demand for game processors in the Microelectronics business.
revenue excluding Divested personal computing business(Dollars in millions)																						Yr.	to	Yr. Percent								Yr.	to	Yr.	change								Percent	constantFor	the	Year	ended	december	31:				2006	2005	change	currencYStatement of Earnings Revenue Presentation:  Global Services 	 	 $48,247 $47,407 1.8% 1.7 	Hardware 	 	 22,499 21,468 4.8 3.9 	Software 	 	 18,204 16,830 8.2 7.5 	Global Financing 	 	 2,379 2,407 (1.1) (1.6) 	Other 	 	 94 147 (36.4) (33.4)Total			$91,424	$88,259 3.6% 3.2(Dollars in millions)																		Yr.	to	Yr. Percent								Yr.	to	Yr.	change								Percent	constant	For	the	Year	ended	december	31:				2006	2005*	change	currencYIndustry Sector:  Financial Services 	 	 $25,181 $23,916 5.3% 4.9 	Public 	 	 13,401 13,599 (1.5) (2.1) 	Industrial 	 	 11,535 11,470 0.6 0.4 	Distribution 	 	 9,034 8,836 2.3 1.7 	Communications 	 	 8,679 8,468 2.5 2.1 	Small & Medium Business 	 	 16,981 16,018 6.0 5.7 	OEM 	 	 3,856 3,271 17.9 17.9 	Other 	 	 2,756 2,681 2.8 2.9Total			$91,424	$88,259 3.6% 3.2*	Reclassified	to	conform	with	2006	presentation.(Dollars in millions)																		Yr.	to	Yr. Percent								Yr.	to	Yr.	change								Percent	constantFor	the	Year	ended	december	31:				2006	2005	change	currencYGeographies:  Americas 	 	 $39,511 $37,725 4.7% 3.7 	Europe/Middle East/Africa 	 	 30,491 29,549 3.2 1.8 	Asia Pacific 	 	 17,566 17,714 (0.8) 1.8 	OEM 	 	 3,856 3,271 17.9 17.9Total			$91,424	$88,259 3.6% 3.2%%				%%				%%Total revenue, excluding the divested Personal Computing business, increased 3.6 percent (3.2 percent adjusted for currency) versus 2005.  Revenue across all industry sectors increased in 2006 when compared to 2005, except for the Public sector. Financial Services sector revenue increased 5.3 percent driven by Banking (8.5 percent). Public sector revenue decreased 1.5 percent driven by a 15.0 percent decline in the Education industry. Industrial sector revenue increased 0.6 percent driven by Chemical and Petroleum (16.3 percent), partially offset by decreased revenue from Automotive (4.2 percent). Distribution sector revenue increased 2.3 percent driven by Consumer Products (8.0 percent) and Retail (3.2 percent) industries, partially offset by decreased revenue in Travel and Transportation (3.2 percent). Communications sector revenue increased 2.5 percent on the strength of increased Utilities revenue (11.7 percent). Small and Medium Business increased 6.0 percent in 2006 versus 2005 with growth in all geographic markets and enabled by growth in the company’s ibm.com channel.  The following geographic, regional and country-specific revenue performance and the table above excludes OEM revenue, which is presented separately. Adjusted for currency, revenue increased in all geographic markets in 2006 when compared with 2005, with the strongest growth coming from the Americas.  Americas’ revenue grew 4.7 percent as reported (4 percent adjusted for currency), with growth in all regions. From a product perspective, the increased revenue was driven by software. Latin America led the regions with growth of 14.4 percent (9 percent adjusted for currency). Brazil grew 18.9 percent (8 percent adjusted for currency). The U.S. increased 3.6 percent and Canada grew 6.5 percent (flat adjusted for currency). EMEA revenue increased 3.2 percent (2 percent adjusted for currency) in 2006 when compared with 2005, with revenue growth in all the major countries, except Germany. Revenue increased in the U.K. 3.0 percent (1 percent adjusted for currency), France 4.0 percent (2 percent adjusted for currency), Spain 4.1 percent (2 percent adjusted for currency) and Italy 3.6 percent (2 percent adjusted for currency). Germany declined a modest 0.3 percent as reported (2 percent adjusted for currency) in 2006 when compared to 2005. Russia grew 21.1 percent (21 percent adjusted for currency).  Asia Pacific revenue declined 0.8 percent (increased 2 percent adjusted for currency) in 2006 versus the prior year. Although Japan revenue declined 7.5 percent (2 percent adjusted for currency), its performance improved sequentially throughout 2006 and returned to growth in the fourth quarter. Partially offsetting the revenue decline in Japan was growth in other Asia Pacific regions. China grew 15.8 percent (14 percent adjusted for currency), Korea grew 14.2 percent (6 percent adjusted for currency) and India increased 38.5 percent (42 percent adjusted for currency). For the year, the company benefited from solid contributions from the emerging countries of Brazil, India, Russia and China . Collectively, revenue from these four countries increased 20.5 percent (16 percent adjusted for currency) in 2006 versus 2005. OEM revenue increased 17.9 percent (18 percent adjusted for currency) in 2006 versus 2005 driven by strong game processor demand in the Microelectronics business. Total Global Services revenue increased 1.8 percent in 2006 versus 2005. The increase was driven by GTS (2.4 percent) and GBS (0.4 percent). The increase in GTS was driven by Strategic Outsourcing (3.2 percent) and BTO (17.2 percent), partially offset by a decline in ITS revenue of 1.8 percent.  Overall, Hardware revenue declined as reported in 2006 compared to 2005 due to the divestiture of the Personal Computing business. Systems and Technology Group revenue increased 4.7 percent as System z revenue increased 7.8 percent and MIPS (millions of instructions per second) volumes increased 11 percent versus 2005. System Storage revenue increased 6.4 percent as Total disk grew 7.8 percent driven by midrange disk (16.5 percent), while tape products revenue increased 3.1 percent. Microelectronics revenue increased 21.9 percent driven by strong demand in games processors and networking components. System x increased 3.7 percent compared to 2005 driven by increased revenue for servers (5.3 percent) and Blades (22.3 percent). Retail Stores Solutions revenue increased 21.4 percent versus 2005. These increases were partially offset by declines in System i servers (15.0) percent, System p servers (1.1 percent), Printing Systems (7.6 percent) and E&TS (16.2 percent). Personal Computing Division had no revenue in 2006 versus four months of revenue in 2005. See note C, “Acquisitions/Divestitures,” on pages 77 and 78 for additional information.   Software revenue increased 8.2 percent in 2006 versus 2005 driven by growth in the company’s Key Branded Middleware offerings (17.1 percent), partially offset by lower Operating Systems revenue (6.3 percent). The Key Branded Middleware growth was driven by strong performance in the WebSphere family of products (23.3 percent) and Tivoli (26.3 percent). All five brands in Key Branded Middleware had double-digit revenue growth in 2006 versus 2005 with the exception of Rational which grew 4.4 percent.  Global Financing revenue decreased 1.1 percent in 2006 versus 2005 due to lower remarketing equipment sales, partially offset by an increase in financing revenue. See pages 49 through 53 for additional information regarding Global Financing.gross profit				Yr.	to	Yr.For	the	Year	ended	december	31:	2006	2005	changeConsolidated Gross   	Profit Margins: 	 Global Services 27.5% 26.0% 1.5 	 Hardware 37.0 35.1 1.9 	 Software 85.2 84.9 0.3 	 Global Financing 50.3 54.7 (4.4) 	 Other (13.2) 45.2 (58.4)Total 41.9%	40.1% 1.8 pts.  pts.The increase in the overall Global Services gross profit margin was primarily due to benefits from the company’s productivity initiatives and cost efficiencies, including improved utilization. The increase in Hardware margin was primarily due to the divestiture of the Personal Computing business (which had a lower gross profit margin than the other hardware businesses) in the second quarter of 2005. The absence of the Personal Computing business contributed 3.5 points to the increase in the 2006 hardware margin. This increase was partially offset by a 2.7 point decline in the Systems and Technology Group margin in 2006 versus 2005.  The decrease in Global Financing gross profit margin was primarily driven by lower financing margins due to higher borrowing costs related to the external interest rate environment. In addition, an increase in retirement-related plan costs of approximately $235 million partially offset by a decrease in stock-based compensation costs of approximately $114 million compared to 2005 also impacted overall segment margins. See “Segment Details” discussion on pages 29 to 32 for further details on gross profit.expense(Dollars in millions)				Yr.	to	Yr.For	the	Year	ended	december	31:	2006	2005	changeTotal expense and  	other income $24,978 $24,306 2.8Expense to Revenue (E/R) 27.3% 26.7% 0.7% pts. Total expense and other income increased 2.8 percent (2.4 percent adjusted for currency) in 2006 versus 2005. Overall, the increase was primarily due to increased Research, development and engineering expense driven by acquisitions and lower Other (income) and expense driven by the gain associated with the sale of the Personal Computing business and the Microsoft settlement in 2005. These increases were partially offset by lower Selling, general and administrative expense due primarily to the restructuring charges recorded in the second quarter of 2005. The expense-to-revenue ratio increased 0.7 points to 27.3 percent in 2006, as revenue increased 0.3 percent and expense increased 2.8 percent in 2006 versus 2005. For additional information regarding the increase in Total expense and other income, see the following analyses by category:selling, general anD aDMinistrative(Dollars in millions)				Yr.	to	Yr.For	the	Year	ended	december	31:	2006	2005*	changeSelling, general and  	administrative expense: Selling, general and  	administrative—base $17,459 $16,620 5.0Advertising and  	promotional expense 1,195 1,284 (6.9)Workforce reductions—  	ongoing 289 289 0.4Restructuring (7) 1,482 NMAmortization expense—  acquired intangibles 208 218 (4.5)Retirement-related expense 587 846 (30.6)Stock-based compensation 541 606 (10.7)Bad debt expense (13) (31) (57.2)Total $20,259 $21,314 (4.9)% %*	Reclassified	to	conform	with	2006	presentation.NM—Not	meaningfulTotal Selling, general and administrative (SG&A) expense decreased 4.9 percent (5.3 percent adjusted for currency). The decrease was primarily driven by the restructuring charges recorded in the second quarter of 2005. See note R, “2005 Actions,” on pages 93 and 94 for additional information. In addition, retirement-related expense and stock-based compensation expense (see “Retirement-Related Benefits” and “Stock-Based Compensation,” on pages 27 and 28 for additional information) decreased in 2006 versus 2005. These decreases were partially offset by increased operational expenses (SG&A-base) as a result of strategic acquisitions and investments the company is making in its software and services businesses as well as emerging countries. The returns on these investments are reflected in the revenue growth in the company’s key middleware brands and emerging countries during 2006 and strong services signings in the fourth quarter.other (incoMe) anD expense(Dollars in millions)				Yr.	to	Yr.For	the	Year	ended	december	31:	2006	2005*	changeOther (income) and expense: Foreign currency  	transaction (gains)/losses $(130) $  218 NMLosses on derivative instruments 135 4 NMInterest income (536) (307) 74.8Net gains from securities  and investments assets (40) (111) (63.9)Net realized gains from  	certain real estate activities (41) (179) (77.2)Restructuring (7) 230 NMLenovo/Microsoft gains (45) (1,883) (97.6)Other (102) (93) 9.6Total $(766) $(2,122) (63.9)%%*	Reclassified	to	conform	with	2006	presentation.NM—Not	meaningfulOther (income) and expense was net income of $766 million and $2,122 million in 2006 and 2005, respectively. The decrease in net income was primarily driven by the gain on the sale of the company’s Personal Computing business recorded in 2005. The pre-tax gain associated with this transaction was $1,108 million. See note C, “Acquisitions/Divestitures,” on pages 77 and 78 for additional information. In addition, the company settled certain antitrust issues with the Microsoft Corporation in 2005 and the gain from this settlement was $775 million. The company also had lower income from certain 
Management Discussion ........................................................12 	Road	Map	............................................................................. 12 	Forward-Looking	and	Cautionary	Statements	..................... 13 	Management	Discussion	Snapshot	...................................... 14 	Description	of	Business	....................................................... 1522374141real estate activities, as 2005 had unusually high gains from a few large real estate transactions. These decreases in income were partially offset by additional Interest income generated by the company in 2006; foreign currency transaction gains in 2006 versus losses in 2005 and real estate related restructuring charges recorded in the second quarter of 2005. See note R, “2005 Actions,” on pages 93 and 94 for additional information. The Losses on derivative instruments relate to losses on certain hedge contracts offset by settlement of foreign currency receivables and payables. See “Currency Rate Fluctuations,” on page 47 for additional discussion of currency impacts on the company’s financial results.research, DevelopMent anD engineering(Dollars in millions)				Yr.	to	Yr.For	the	Year	ended	december	31:	2006	2005	changeResearch, development   	and engineering: Total $6,107 $5,842 4.5% The increase in Research, development and engineering (RD&E) was primarily driven by acquisitions and the company’s investments to maintain its technology leadership across the product offerings. Software spending increased $210 million and Systems and Technology spending increased $92 million in 2006 versus 2005. These increases were partially offset by the year-to-year reduction in the Personal Computing Division of $52 million due to the divestiture of that business in the prior year. Retirement-related expense increased $32 million in 2006 versus 2005, partially offset by lower stock-based compensation expense of $18 million.	intellectual property anD  custoM DevelopMent incoMe(Dollars in millions)			Yr.	to	Yr.For	the	Year	ended	december	31:	2006	2005	changeIntellectual property and  	custom development income: Sales and other transfers  	of intellectual property $167 $236 (29.1)Licensing/royalty-based fees 352 367 (4.1)Custom development income 381 345 10.5Total $900 $948 (5.0)	%%The timing and amount of Sales and other transfers of IP may vary significantly from period to period depending upon timing of divestitures, industry consolidation, economic conditions and the timing of new patents and know-how development. There were no significant IP transactions in 2006 and 2005. interest expense(Dollars in millions)				Yr.	to	Yr.For	the	Year	ended	december	31:	2006	2005	changeInterest expense: Total $278 $220 26.6%The increase in Interest expense was primarily driven by higher effective interest rates in 2006 versus 2005. Interest expense is presented in Cost of Global Financing in the Consolidated Statement of Earnings only if the related external borrowings are to support the Global Financing external business. See page 52 for additional information regarding Global Financing debt and interest expense.stock-based compensationTotal pre-tax stock-based compensation expense of $846 million decreased $189 million compared to 2005. The decrease was principally the result of: (1) a reduction in the level and fair value of stock option grants ($284 million), (2) changes to the terms of the company’s employee stock purchase plan, which rendered it non-compensatory in the second quarter of 2005 in accordance with the provisions of SFAS No. 123(R) ($18 million), offset by (3) increased expense for performance-based stock units ($34 million) resulting from changes in the probabilities of achieving performance metrics and (4) an increase in the level of restricted stock units ($78 million). The effects on pre-tax stock-based compensation expense of the 2005 sale of the Personal Computing business were recorded in Other (income) and expense in the Consolidated Statement of Earnings for the year ended December 31, 2005. The year-to-year reductions in pre-tax compensation expense were reflected in the following categories: Cost ($114 million); Selling, general and administrative expense ($65 million); Research, development and engineering ($18 million); and an increase in Other (income) and expense ($8 million). There was no significant capitalized stock-based compensation expense at December 31, 2006 and 2005.  See note U, “Stock-Based Compensation,” on page 96 to 100 for additional information on the company’s stock-based incentive awards.retirement-related benefits The following table provides the total pre-tax cost for all retirementrelated plans. Cost amounts are included as an addition to the cost and expense amounts in the Consolidated Statement of Earnings within the caption (e.g., Cost, SG&A, RD&E) relating to the job function of the individuals participating in the plans.(Dollars in millions)				Yr.	to	Yr.For	the	Year	ended	december	31:	2006	2005*	changeRetirement-related plans cost: Defined benefit and   	contribution pension  	plans cost $2,040 $1,726 18.2Nonpension postretirement  	plans costs 388 379 2.4Plan amendments/curtailments — 332 NMTotal $2,428 $2,437 (0.4)%%*	Reclassified	to	conform	with	2006	presentation.NM—Not	meaningfulOverall, retirement-related plan costs decreased $9 million versus 2005. The 2005 retirement-related plan costs included $332 million related to unique items: a curtailment charge of $267 million recorded in the fourth quarter as a result of U.S. pension plan amendments and a $65 million charge recorded in the second quarter related to the company’s restructuring actions. These non-recurring charges were recorded in SG&A ($318 million) and Other (income) and expense ($14 million). This decrease year to year in retirement-related plan costs was essentially offset by an increase in the recognition of previously deferred actuarial losses in accordance with SFAS No. 87, “Employers’ Accounting for Pensions.” Retirement-related expense within SG&A decreased $262 million year to year: a $318 million decrease as a result of the prior year charges discussed previously, offset by recurring plan cost increases of $56 million versus 2005. Other (income) and expense decreased $14 million as discussed above. Increases year to year in Cost and RD&E expense of approximately $235 million and $32 million, respectively, were a result of recurring plan cost increases. See note V, “RetirementRelated Benefits,” on pages 100 to 111 for additional information on the company’s benefit plans including a description of the plans, plan financial information and assumptions.acquired intangible asset amortization The company has been investing in targeted acquisitions primarily within its Software and Global Services segments to increase its capabilities in higher value market segments. The following table presents the total acquired intangible asset amortization included in the Consolidated Statement of Earnings. See note I, “Intangible Assets Including Goodwill,” on pages 80 and 81 for additional information.(Dollars in millions)			Yr.	to	Yr.For	the	Year	ended	december	31:	2006	2005	changeCost:  	Software $ 81 $118 (30.9) 	Global Services 23 27 (15.3) 	Hardware 3 4 (16.7)Selling, general and  	administrative expense 208 218 (4.5)Total $316 $367 (13.9)	%%income taxesThe provision for income taxes resulted in an effective tax rate of 29.3 percent for 2006, compared with the 2005 effective tax rate of 34.6 percent. The 5.3 point decrease in the 2006 effective tax rate was primarily attributable to the net effect of several items. In 2006, the tax rate was favorably impacted by the absence of the foreign earnings repatriation-related tax charge recorded in the third quarter of 2005 (4.3 points) as well as a benefit from the fourth-quarter 2006 settlement of the U.S. federal income tax audit for the years 2001 through 2003 (3.0 points). These benefits were partially offset by a one-time tax cost associated with the 2006 intercompany transfer of certain intellectual property (4.3 points). The remaining items were individually insignificant.earnings per shareBasic earnings per share is computed on the basis of the weightedaverage number of shares of common stock outstanding during the period. Diluted earnings per share is computed on the basis of the weighted-average number of shares of common stock plus the effect of dilutive potential common shares outstanding during the period using the treasury stock method. Dilutive potential common shares include outstanding stock options, stock awards and convertible notes.
Management Discussion ........................................................12 	Road	Map	............................................................................. 12 	Forward-Looking	and	Cautionary	Statements	..................... 13 	Management	Discussion	Snapshot	...................................... 14 	Description	of	Business	....................................................... 1522374141			Yr.	to	Yr.	For	the	Year	ended	december	31:	2006	2005	changeEarnings per share of  	common stock:	 	Assuming dilution:	 	 Continuing operations $6.06 $ 4.91 23.4%	 	 Discontinued operations 0.05 (0.01) NM 	 Cumulative effect of change  	  in accounting principle* — (0.02) NMTotal $6.11 $ 4.87 25.5%	 	Basic:	 	 Continuing operations $6.15 $ 4.99 23.2%	 	 Discontinued operations 0.05 (0.02) NM  Cumulative effect of change    in accounting principle* — (0.02) NMTotal $6.20 $ 4.96 25.0%Weighted-average shares  	outstanding (in millions): 	 	Assuming dilution  1,553.5 1,627.6 (4.6)%	 	Basic 1,530.8 1,600.6 (4.4)%*		Reflects	implementation	of	FASB	Interpretation	No.	47.	See	note	B,	“Accounting	Changes,”	on	page	72	for	additional	information.NM—Not	meaningfulActual shares outstanding at December 31, 2006 and December 31, 2005 were 1,506.5 million and 1,574.0 million, respectively. The average number of common shares outstanding assuming dilution was lower by 74.1 million shares in 2006 versus 2005. The decrease was primarily the result of the company’s common share repurchase program. See note N, “Stockholders’ Equity Activity,” on page 88 for additional information regarding the common share activities. Also see note S, “Earnings Per Share of Common Stock,” on page 95.segMent Detailsthe following is an analysis of the 2006 versus 2005 reportable segment results. The analysis of 2005 versus 2004 reportable segment results is on pages 39 and 40. The following table presents each reportable segment’s external revenue as a percentage of total external segment revenue, excluding the Personal Computing business.For	the	Year	ended	december	31:		2006	2005Global Technology Services 	 35.6% 36.0%Global Business Services 	 17.6 18.2 	Total Global Services 	 53.2 54.1Hardware 	 24.2 23.9Global Financing 	 2.6 2.7 	Total Hardware/Financing 	 26.8 26.7Software 	 20.0 19.2 Total 	 100.0% 100.0%The table below presents each reportable segment’s pre-tax income as a percentage of total reportable segment pre-tax income, excluding the Personal Computing business and the 2005 restructuring charges. Segment pre-tax income includes transactions between the segments that are intended to reflect an arms-length transfer price.For	the	Year	ended	december	31:		2006	2005Global Technology Services 	 24.0% 25.5%Global Business Services 	 12.5 9.5 	Total Global Services 	 36.5 35.0Hardware 	 12.7 15.4Global Financing 	 10.6 12.2 	Total Hardware/Financing 	 23.3 27.6Software 	 40.1 37.4 Total 	 100.0% 100.0%global servicesThe company’s two services segments, Global Technology Services and Global Business Services had revenue of $48,291 million, an increase of 1.9 percent (2 percent adjusted for currency) in 2006 versus 2005. Revenue growth and the profile of the services business improved throughout 2006.(Dollars in millions)				Yr.	to	Yr.For	the	Year	ended	december	31:	2006	2005	changeGlobal Services   	segment revenue: $48,291 $47,407 1.9Global Technology Services $32,322 $31,501 2.6 	Strategic Outsourcing 17,044 16,522 3.2 	Integrated Technology   	 Services 7,448 7,538 (1.2) 	Business Transformation  	 Outsourcing 1,845 1,573 17.2 	Maintenance 5,986 5,868 2.0Global Business Services $15,969 $15,906 0.4%%% Global Technology Services revenue increased 2.6 percent (2 percent adjusted for currency) in 2006 versus the prior year period. Total signings in GTS increased 1 percent in 2006 when compared to 2005, with shorter term signings increasing 5 percent while longer term signings were flat.  Revenue from Strategic Outsourcing was up 3.2 percent (3 percent adjusted for currency) due primarily to signings growth in 2005 and a continued focus on increasing services into existing accounts. Signings in 2006 increased 7 percent when compared to 2005.  Integrated Technology Services revenue decreased 1.2 percent (2 percent adjusted for currency) in 2006 versus 2005. The rate of revenue growth in ITS improved during the second half of 2006 reflecting progress from the changes implemented throughout 2006 to improve the ITS business, including streamlining offerings and aligning skills to address higher growth and higher value areas. The acquisition of Internet Security Systems Inc. (ISS), added to the company’s capabilities in security and intrusion protection, and contributed to improved performance in the fourth quarter. ITS signings increased 5 percent in 2006 over the year-ago period.  Business Transformation Outsourcing revenue increased 17.2 percent (17 percent adjusted for currency) in 2006 when compared to 2005. The rate of growth in BTO was negatively impacted by a significant contract renegotiation in 2006 which will continue through the first quarter of 2007. While BTO signings in 2006 decreased 33 percent versus 2005, the company continues to see opportunity within this business, particularly in Finance and Accounting, Human Resources and Procurement. Maintenance revenue increased 2.0 percent (2 percent adjusted for currency) driven by increased availability services on non-IBM IT equipment, primarily in the Americas and Asia Pacific geographies.  The GTS segment pre-tax margin was 9.6 percent in 2006, an increase of 1.9 points versus 2005. The improvement was primarily the result of the incremental restructuring charges recorded in the second quarter of 2005 and the continued focus on productivity initiatives. The company is continuing to make investments in sales, delivery and business development skills across the entire set of GTS offerings, as well as investing in strategic outsourcing infrastructure and BTO capabilities.  Global Business Services revenue increased 0.4 percent (1 percent adjusted for currency) in 2006 versus 2005. The rate of year-over-year revenue growth in GBS increased in the second half of 2006 reflecting progress made on actions taken throughout the year that focused on operational transformation and profitable growth initiatives. Total signings in GBS increased 10 percent in 2006. Shorter term signings were up 6 percent; with particular strength in the larger, higher value-add engagements during the second half of the year. Longer term signings increased 17 percent, driven by the Application Management business.  The GBS segment pre-tax margin was 9.8 percent in 2006, an improvement of 5.3 points versus 2005. In addition to the benefits received from the incremental restructuring charges recorded in the second quarter of 2005 (2.6 points of improvement), the margin improvement was driven by improved utilization, better contract management and delivery and stable-to-improved pricing. (Dollars in millions)				Yr.	to	Yr.For	the	Year	ended	december	31:	2006	2005	changeGlobal Services:  	Gross profit $13,317 $12,314 8.1 	Gross profit margin 27.6% 26.0% 1.6% pts.Global Services gross profit dollars increased primarily due to the benefits from productivity initiatives and cost efficiencies, including benefits resulting from the company’s targeted restructuring action in the second quarter of 2005. Gross profit margin improvement was achieved in each of the services lines of business.global services signingsIn 2006, total Global Services signings increased 4 percent year to year to $49,174 million, driven by a 6 percent increase in shorter term signings and a 4 percent increase in longer term signings. Global Technology Services signings were $29,608 million and Global Business Services signings were $19,565 million in 2006. The company’s total Global Services backlog increased to an estimated $116 billion from the 2005 estimated backlog of $111 billion.(Dollars in millions)For	the	Year	ended	december	31:		2006	2005Global Technology Services SigningsLonger term* 	 $21,337 $21,355Shorter term* 	 8,271 7,886Total 	 $29,608 $29,242Global Business Services SigningsLonger term* 	 $ 6,838 $ 5,824Shorter term* 	 12,727 12,015Total 	 $19,565 $17,839*		Longer	term	contracts	are	generally	7	to	10	years	in	length	and	represent	SO	and	BTO	contracts	as	well	as	GBS	contracts	with	the	U.S.	federal	government	and	its	agencies	and	AMS	for	custom	and	legacy	applications.	Shorter	term	are	contracts	generally	three	to	nine	months	in	length	and	represent	the	remaining	GBS	offerings	of	Consulting	and	Systems	Integration,	AMS	packaged	applications	and	ITS	contracts.	These	amounts	have	been	adjusted	to	exclude	the	impact	of	year-to-year	currency	changes.	  Global Services signings are management’s initial estimate of the value of a client’s commitment under a Global Services contract. Signings are used by management to assess period performance of Global Services management. There are no third-party standards or requirements governing the calculation of signings. The calculation used by management is an approximation of constant currency, and involves estimates and judgments to gauge the extent of a client’s commitment, including the type and duration of the agreement, and the presence of termination charges or wind-down costs. For example, for longer term contracts that require significant up-front investment by the company, the portions of these contracts that are counted as a signing are those periods in which there is a significant economic impact on the client if the commitment is not achieved, usually through a termination charge or the client incurring significant winddown costs as a result of the termination. For shorter term contracts that do not require significant up-front investments, a signing is usually equal to the full contract value. Signings include SO, BTO, ITS and GBS contracts. Contract extensions and increases in scope are treated as signings only to the extent of the incremental new value. Maintenance is not included in signings as maintenance contracts tend to be more steady state, where 
hardware(Dollars in millions)			Yr.	to	Yr.For	the	Year	ended	december	31:	2006	2005	changeHardware segment revenue: $21,970 $23,857 (7.9) 	Systems and Technology  	 Group $21,970 $20,981 4.7 	  System z   7.8 	  System i   (15.0) 	  System p   (1.1) 	  System x   3.7 	  System Storage   6.4 	  Microelectronics   21.9 	  Engineering &  	   Technology Services   (16.2) 	  Retail Store Solutions   21.4 	  Printing Systems   (7.6) 	Personal Computing Division — 2,876 NM	%%NM—Not	meaningfulManagement Discussion ........................................................12 	Road	Map	............................................................................. 12 	Forward-Looking	and	Cautionary	Statements	..................... 13 	Management	Discussion	Snapshot	...................................... 14 	Description	of	Business	....................................................... 1522374141
revenue equal renewals, and therefore, the company does not think they are as useful a predictor of future performance. Backlog includes SO, BTO, ITS, GBS, and Maintenance. Backlog is intended to be a statement of overall work under contract and therefore does include Maintenance. Backlog estimates are subject to change and are affected by several factors, including terminations, changes in the scope of contracts, periodic revalidations, adjustments for revenue not materialized and currency assumptions used to approximate constant currency. Contract portfolios purchased in an acquisition are treated as positive backlog adjustments provided those contracts meet the company’s requirements for initial signings. A new signing will be recognized if a new services agreement is signed incidental or coincident to an acquisition.
 Systems and Technology Group revenue increased 4.7 percent (4 percent adjusted for currency) in 2006 versus 2005. System z revenue increased reflecting continued strong customer acceptance of both specialty engines for Linux and Java workloads and traditional mainframe workloads. MIPS shipments increased 11 percent versus 2005. System x revenue increased driven by increased server revenue (5.3 percent) and System x blades growth of 22.3 percent. IBM BladeCenter offers clients unique power and cooling capabilities and the flexibility to efficiently handle various workloads. In addition to the company’s System x blades, the company offers POWER blades and blades utilizing the Cell Broadband Engine. Total blade growth, including System p blades, was 24.6 percent in 2006 versus 2005. Although System p revenue declined for the year, high-end server revenue increased 9.4 percent. In the third quarter the company completed its transition to POWER5+ and expanded the implementation of POWER Quadcore technology to all POWER-based entry level System p products. These transitions allowed the company to sustain the price/performance and virtualization leadership position that has made the company the number one UNIX vendor worldwide. System i revenue declined as the company completed its transition to POWER5+ in the third quarter, however clients continued to leverage their existing capacity.  System Storage revenue growth was driven by Total disk growth of 7.8 percent, while tape grew 3.1 percent in 2006 versus 2005. Within Total disk, mid-range disk revenue increased 16.5 percent and storage area network products increased 10.6 percent, while enterprise products revenue declined 6.7 percent in 2006 versus 2005. The revenue increase in tape products was primarily driven by the new tape security offering which includes unique encryption capabilities.  Microelectronics revenue increased due to strong demand in the game processor business and networking components.  Retail Stores Solutions revenue increased primarily due to clients replacing older technology in favor of integrated retail solutions. Printing Systems revenue decreased due primarily to lower maintenance revenue as a result of a declining install base and lower sales of hardware products. Personal Computing Division revenue decreased as a result of the company divesting its Personal Computing business to Lenovo on April 30, 2005. The 2006 results do not include any revenue while the 2005 results include four months of revenue. See note C, “Acquisitions/ Divestitures,” on pages 77 and 78 for additional information.(Dollars in millions)			Yr.	to	Yr.For	the	Year	ended	december	31:	2006	2005	changeHardware: 	Gross profit $8,284 $8,718 (5.0) 	Gross profit margin 37.7% 36.5% 1.2	% pts.The decrease in gross profit dollars for 2006 versus 2005 was primarily due to the absence of the Personal Computing business. The increase in gross profit margin was also primarily due to the divestiture of the Personal Computing business (which had a lower gross profit margin than the other hardware products) in the second quarter of 2005. This divestiture contributed 3.5 points of the improvement in the Hardware margin. Systems and Technology Group gross profit margins declined 2.7 points to 37.7 percent in 2006 versus 2005. The decline in gross profit margin was driven by revenue mix towards lower margin products in 2006 versus 2005 (2.5 points) and pricing pressure in the company’s low- and mid-range server brands. Differences between the Hardware segment gross profit margin and gross profit dollar amounts above and the amounts reported on page 25 (and derived from page 56) primarily relate to the impact of certain cost hedging transactions (see “Anticipated Royalties and Cost Transactions” on page 84) as well as the ongoing warranty costs associated with the divested Personal Computing business. The recorded amounts for these transactions are considered unallocated corporate amounts for purposes of measuring the segment’s gross margin performance and therefore are not included in the segment results above.software(Dollars in millions)					Yr.	to	Yr.For	the	Year	ended	december	31:	2006	2005*	changeSoftware segment revenue: $18,161 $16,830 7.9 	Middleware $13,891 $12,552 10.7 	 Key Branded Middleware 9,369 8,004 17.1 	  WebSphere family   23.3 	  Information Management   14.0 	  Lotus   12.0 	  Tivoli   26.3 	  Rational   4.4 	 Other middleware 4,522 4,548 (0.6) 	Operating systems 2,273 2,426 (6.3) 	Product Lifecycle 	 Management 1,123 1,077 4.2 	Other 873 775 12.7%%*	Reclassified	to	conform	with	2006	presentation.Software revenue increased 7.9 percent (7 percent adjusted for currency) in 2006 versus 2005 reflecting strong demand for the company’s industry-leading middleware capabilities. The revenue growth was driven from both organic sources and the company’s targeted acquisitions. The company’s leadership in technology and innovation has allowed it to continue to capitalize on industry trends such as SOA and Information on Demand.  Key Branded Middleware is made up of five key brands which provide an integrated suite for the company’s customers. All five brands grew in 2006, reflecting continued momentum and benefit from the company’s sales and development investments along with additional benefit from acquisitions.  Revenue from the WebSphere family of products increased 23.3 percent (22 percent adjusted for currency) and was led by doubledigit growth in WebSphere Application Servers (25.3 percent) and WebSphere Business Integration (22.7 percent) software versus 2005. WebSphere provides the foundation for Web-enabled applications and is a key product set in deploying SOA.  Information Management software helps companies integrate, manage and gain value from their business information. For the year, revenue increased 14.0 percent (13 percent adjusted for currency). Growth was driven by the company’s “Information on Demand” portfolio of software products. The acquisition of FileNet Corporation, during the fourth quarter of 2006, also contributed to the growth when compared to the year-ago period.  Lotus revenue increased 12.0 percent (11 percent adjusted for currency) driven by the Notes/Domino family of collaboration products. The company’s Lotus products provide clients with collaborative solutions which enable the integration of people, data and business processes as part of the company’s On Demand and SOA offerings. Customer loyalty to Lotus products remains strong.  Tivoli revenue increased 26.3 percent (25 percent adjusted for currency) with double-digit growth in each of its key segments: Systems Management (24.5 percent), Security (40.8 percent) and Storage (27.4 percent). The acquisitions of Micromuse, Inc. in the first quarter and MRO Software, Inc. in the fourth quarter added to the company’s capabilities in the Tivoli brand and contributed to the revenue growth.  Rational revenue increased 4.4 percent (3 percent adjusted for currency) in 2006 versus 2005, in a slower growing market. Rational software provides customers with products that manage the business process of software and systems delivery.  Revenue from Other middleware products declined 0.6 percent (1 percent adjusted for currency) in 2006. This product set includes more mature products which provide a more stable flow of revenue.  Operating Systems revenue declined 6.3 percent (7 percent adjusted for currency) in 2006 versus 2005. Operating Systems are closely tied to the company’s server products. The decline in revenue was primarily driven by improved price performance in System z operating systems.   Product Lifecycle Management (PLM) revenue increased 4.2 percent (4 percent adjusted for currency) in 2006 versus 2005. This product set benefited from a number of large transactions in the second quarter of 2006.(Dollars in millions)				Yr.	to	Yr.For	the	Year	ended	december	31:	2006	2005	changeSoftware: 	Gross profit $15,471 $14,296 8.2 	Gross profit margin 85.2% 84.9% 0.2% pts.The increase in Software gross profit dollars and gross profit margin was primarily driven by the 7.9 percent growth in Software revenue.  The Software segment contributed $5.5 billion of pre-tax profit in 2006, an increase of 14.9 percent versus 2005. Pre-tax profit margins improved 1.5 points to 26.9%.global financingSee pages 49 and 50 for a discussion of Global Financing’s revenue and gross profit.financial positionDynamicsThe assets and debt associated with the company’s Global Financing business are a significant part of the company’s financial position. The financial position amounts appearing below and on pages 33 and 34 are the company’s consolidated amounts including Global Financing. However, to the extent the Global Financing business is a major driver of the consolidated financial position, this narrative section will refer to the separate Global Financing section in this Management Discussion on pages 49 through 53. The amounts appearing in the separate Global Financing section are supplementary data presented to facilitate an understanding of the company’s Global Financing business.working capital(Dollars in millions)at	december	31:		2006	2005Current assets 	 $44,660 $45,661Current liabilities 	 40,091 35,152Working capital 	 $ 4,569 $10,509Current ratio 	 1.11 1.30
Management Discussion ........................................................12 	Road	Map	............................................................................. 12 	Forward-Looking	and	Cautionary	Statements	..................... 13 	Management	Discussion	Snapshot	...................................... 14 	Description	of	Business	....................................................... 1522374141Working capital decreased $5,940 million compared to the prior year primarily as a result of an increase in Current liabilities. The key drivers are described below:Current assets decreased $1,001 million due to:• Decline	of	$3,030	million,	net	of	a	favorable	$202	million	currency	impact,	in	Cash	and	cash	equivalents	and	Marketable	Securities	due		to	current-year	requirements	in	pension	funding,	share	repurchase,	
	dividend	payments,	tax	payments,	acquisitions	and	capital	spending.		See	Cash	Flow	analysis	below.• Increase	of	$2,420	million	in	short-term	receivables	driven	by:		—		increase	of	$769	million	in	trade	receivables	as	a	result	of	fourth		quarter	revenue	growth;		—		increase	of	$743	million	in	financing	receivables	due	to	asset		growth	in	commercial	financing	and	customer	loans;	and		—		approximately	$1,106	million	favorable	currency	impact. Current liabilities increased $4,939 million as a result of:• Increase	of	$1,686	million	in	Short-term	debt	as	the	company	increased	commercial	paper	balances	in	support	of	the	increased	Global	Financing	asset	base	discussed	above;• Growth	in	Deferred	income	driven	by	Software	($557	million)	and	Global	Services	($423	million);• Increase	of	$1,270	million	in	Compensation	and	benefits	primarily	as		a	result	of	SFAS	No.	158	implementation;	the	company	is	required	to	record	as	a	current	liability	the	amount	of	retirement-related	benefit	payments	that	will	be	paid	in	the	coming	year	($990	million)	that	are	not	covered	by	retirement	plan	assets;	this	would	occur	in	unfunded	or	underfunded	plans;	and• Increase	of	$615	million	in	Accounts	payable	of	which	$256	million	was	due	to	the	effects	of	currency.Cash FlowThe company’s cash flow from operating, investing and financing activities, as reflected in the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows on page 58, is summarized in the table below. These amounts include the cash flows associated with the company’s Global Financing business. See pages 49 through 53.(Dollars in millions)for the year ended deCeMBer 31:	 2006 2005Net cash provided by/(used in)  	continuing operations: 	 Operating activities 	 $ 15,019	$14,914 	 Investing activities 	 (11,549)	(4,423) 	 Financing activities 	 (8,204)	(7,147)Effect of exchange rate changes 	on cash and cash equivalents 	 201	(789)Net cash used in discontinued  	operations—operating activities* 	 (12)	(40)Net change in cash and   cash equivalents 	 $ (4,546) $	2,515*		Does	not	include	$319	million	in	2005	of	net	proceeds	from	the	sale	of	the	HDD		business.	$51	million	is	included	in	Operating	activities	from	continuing	operations	and	$268	million	is	included	in	Investing	activities	from	continuing	operations.   Net cash from operating activities for 2006 increased $105 million as compared to 2005 driven by the following key factors:• Increase	in	net	income	of	$1,559	million;• Decrease	in	cash	related	to	deferred	income	taxes,	$461	million,		due	to	the	utilization	of	tax	credit	carryforwards	in	2005;• Decrease	in	net	gains	on	asset	sales,	$1,350	million,	driven	by	the		gain	related	to	the	Personal	Computing	business	divestiture	in	2005;• Pension	assets	and	liabilities	contributed	an	increase	in	cash	of	$878		million,	primarily	driven	by	lower	pension	funding	of	$549	million	($1,840	million	funding	of	non-U.S.	plans	in	2006	versus	$2,389	million	total	funding	in	2005);• Increase	in	cash	driven	by	Accounts	payable	of	$891	million	primarily	as	a	result	of	the	Personal	Computing	business	divestiture	in	2005;	and• Growth	in	accounts	receivable	drove	a	use	of	cash	of	$2,731	million;	this	was	driven	by	Global	Financing	receivables	($2,071	million)		primarily	due	to	asset	growth	in	the	second	half	of	2006;	in	addition,	the	Personal	Computing	business	divestiture	contributed	to	this	year-	to-year	decrease	in	cash.Net cash used in investing activities increased $7,126 million on a yearto-year basis driven by: • Net	purchases	of	marketable	securities	and	other	investments	of		$2,668	million;	• Increased	spending	of	$2,316	million	for	acquisitions;• Increase	in	net	capital	spending	of	$1,210	million	as	a	result	of	a		$521	million	increase	in	capital	expenditures	primarily	to	support	the	SO	business,	and	a	$677	million	decrease	in	real	estate	sales	versus		the	prior	year;	and• A	decline	in	divestiture	related	cash	proceeds	of	$932	million:	$662		million	related	to	the	Personal	Computing	business	divestiture	and	$268	million	received	from	Hitachi	representing	the	final	proceeds	related	to	the	HDD	business	sale;	both	of	these	payments	were	received	in	2005.Net cash used in financing activities increased $1,057 million compared to 2005 as a result of:• Higher	dividend	payments	of	$434	million	as	a	result	of	the	increase		in	the	company’s	quarterly	common	stock	dividend	from	$0.20	to		$0.30	per	share;	and• Increase	in	net	cash	used	to	retire	debt	of	$730	million.Within total debt, on a net basis, the company utilized $121 million in net cash to retire debt versus $609 million in net proceeds from new debt in 2005. The net cash used in 2006 to retire debt was comprised of: $3,400 million in cash payments to retire debt offset by $1,444 million of new debt issuances and $1,834 million in net shortterm borrowings. See note K, “Borrowings,” on pages 81 to 83 for a listing of the company’s debt securities.non-Current assets and liabilities(Dollars in millions)at deCeMBer 31:	 2006 2005Non-current assets 	 $58,574	$60,087Long-term debt 	 $13,780	$15,425Non-current liabilities (excluding debt)  $20,857	$22,073The decrease in Non-current assets of $1,513 million compared to the prior year-end balance was primarily driven by:• A	decline	of	$9,996	million	($10,776	million	excluding	the	effects	of	currency)	in	Prepaid	pension	assets	primarily	attributable	to	the	implementation	of	SFAS	No.	158	which	requires	that	only	overfunded	plans	( fair	value	of	plan	assets	exceed	the	benefit	obligation)	be	recognized		as	a	Prepaid	pension	asset	for	the	excess	amount.	The significant decline in Prepaid pension assets was offset by increases in other non-current asset categories as follows: • Increase	in	Goodwill	of	$3,413	million	and	$539	million	in	Intangible	assets-net,	both	driven	by	the	company’s	acquisitions	in	the	current	year;	• Growth	of	$440	million	in	long-term	financing	receivables	due	to	increased	Global	Financing	volumes;• Increase	of	$3,408	million	in	Investments	and	sundry	assets	which		was	attributable	to	three	key	factors:	—		increase	of	$2,048	million	in	non-current	deferred	tax	assets		primarily	as	a	result	of	SFAS	No.	158;	—		growth	of	$451	million	in	deferred	transition	costs	driven	by		an	increase	in	long-term	services	arrangements	with	clients;	and	—		$345	million	due	to	increased	investments	in	long-term		marketable	securities.Long-term debt decreased $1,644 million primarily due to a reclassification to short-term debt as these items approach maturity. The company continually monitors its liquidity profile and interest rates, and manages its short- and long-term debt portfolios accordingly.   Other non-current liabilities, excluding debt, decreased $1,216 million due to decreases of $951 million ($1,145 million before the effects of currency) in non-current deferred tax liabilities and $226 million ($858 million before the effects of currency) in Retirement and nonpension postretirement benefit obligations primarily due to the implementation of SFAS No. 158.DebtThe company’s funding requirements are continually monitored and strategies are executed to manage the company’s overall asset and liability profile. Additionally, the company maintains sufficient flexibility to access global funding sources as needed. (Dollars in millions)at deCeMBer 31:	 2006 2005Total company debt  	$22,682	$22,641Non-Global Financing debt*  	$   395	$	2,142Non-Global Financing debt/  	capitalization  	1.5%	6.7%*		Non-Global	Financing	debt	is	the	company’s	total	external	debt	less	the	Global	Financing	debt	described	in	the	Global	Financing	balance	sheet	on	page	50.	Non-Global Financing debt decreased $1,747 million and the debtto-capital ratio at December 31, 2006 was at 1.5 percent. Non-Global Financing debt decreased versus 2005 as the company paid down debt, including debt used in 2005 to facilitate the company’s repatriation actions under the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004.equity(Dollars in millions)at deCeMBer 31:	 2006 2005Stockholders’ equity:Total 	 $28,506 $33,098The company’s consolidated Stockholders’ equity decreased $4,592 million in 2006 as a result of several key factors:
Management Discussion ........................................................12 	Road	Map	............................................................................. 12 	Forward-Looking	and	Cautionary	Statements	..................... 13 	Management	Discussion	Snapshot	...................................... 14 	Description	of	Business	....................................................... 1522374141• A	decline	of	$6,885	million	in	Accumulated	gains	and	(losses)	not		affecting	retained	earnings	primarily	as	a	result	of	the	non-cash	equity	impacts	related	to	the	implementation	of	SFAS	No.	158;• Dividend	payments	of	$1,683	million;	and• A	decrease	driven	by	net	stock	transactions	of	$5,405	million,	primarily	a	result	of	the	company’s	ongoing	common	stock	repurchase	program.These reductions in Stockholders’ equity were partially offset by an increase in retained earnings driven by current year net income of $9,492 million.sFas no. 158The impacts related to the implementation of SFAS No. 158 on the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position are discussed in detail in note V, “Retirement-Related Benefits,” on pages 100 to 111 and note A, “Significant Accounting Policies,” on pages 67 to 68. ConsoliDateD Fourth-Quarter results(Dollars and shares in millions except per share amounts)	        yr. to yr.perCent/ Marginfor fourth quarter: 2006 2005 ChangeRevenue $26,257	$24,427	7.5Gross profit margin 44.6%	44.1%	0.5Total expense and  	other income $ 6,887	$	6,197	11.1Total expense and other  	income-to-revenue ratio 26.2%	25.4%	0.9Income from continuing  operations before   income taxes $ 4,814	$	4,568	5.4Provision for income taxes $ 1,350	$	1,348	0.2Income from continuing  operations $ 3,464	$	3,220	7.6Income from 	discontinued operations $    76	$					3	NMCumulative effect of change  	in accounting principle** $    —	$				(36)	NMEarnings per share of  	common stock: 	Assuming dilution: 	 Continuing operations $  2.26	$		2.01	12.4 	 Discontinued operations 0.05	—	NM 	 Cumulative effect  	  of change in  	  accounting principle** —	(0.02)	NMTotal $  2.31 $		1.99	16.1Weighted-average shares  	outstanding:  	 Assuming dilution 1,532.5	1,604.8	(4.5)   %* 	pts.%	pts.%%%%%%*	4.1	percent	adjusted	for	currency.**		Reflects	implementation	of	Financial	Accounting	Standards	Board	(FASB)	Interpretation	No.	47.	See	note	B,	“Accounting	Changes,”	on	page	72	for		additional	information.NM—Not	meaningfulContinuing operationsIn the fourth quarter, the company increased Income from continuing operations by 7.6 percent ($244 million) to $3.5 billion versus the fourth quarter of 2005. Diluted earnings per share from continuing operations of $2.26 increased 12.4 percent versus the prior year.  The company’s performance in the fourth quarter was driven by several factors:• Strong	revenue	growth	in	the	software	business,	driven	by	continued	momentum	in	strategic	middleware	and	additional	benefits	from		recent	acquisitions;• An	improved	services	business	profile	that	delivered	accelerated	revenue	growth	and	$17.8	billion	of	new	business	signings;	and• Improved	gross	margins	resulting	from	continued	productivity	initiatives	across	the	business	segments.Total revenue in the fourth quarter of $26.3 billion increased 7.5 percent as reported (4 percent adjusted for currency). From a geographic perspective, the Americas and Asia Pacific had the strongest growth, (when adjusted for currency) with improved performance in Japan and positive contributions from emerging countries. Americas’ revenue was $11.1 billion, an increase of 5.9 percent as reported (5 percent adjusted for currency). EMEA revenue was $9.3 billion, up 11.2 percent (3 percent adjusted for currency). Asia Pacific revenue increased 6.9 percent (5 percent adjusted for currency) to $4.8 billion. Revenue from Japan improved with an increase of 2.9 percent (3 percent adjusted for currency) when compared to the fourth quarter of 2005. The emerging countries of Brazil, India, Russia and China together grew 20.7 percent (18 percent adjusted for currency).  The company’s two services segments together had $12.8 billion of revenue in the fourth quarter, an increase of 6.8 percent (3 percent adjusted for currency) when compared to the same period of 2005. Total signings for services in the fourth quarter were $17.8 billion, an increase of 55.1 percent over the year-ago period. Global Technology Services revenue increased 7.1 percent (4 percent adjusted for currency). The acceleration in revenue growth was across the segment’s key offerings. Integrated Technology Services, demonstrating progress from the implementation of new offerings and contribution from the newly acquired Internet Security Systems business grew 7.8 percent, with signings growth of 20 percent—all geographies grew signings. Strategic Outsourcing revenue increased 7.2 percent and signings doubled year over year, with growth in all geographies. Business Transformation Outsourcing revenue increased 8.5 percent. BTO signings declined 57 percent year to year compared to a very strong fourth quarter of 2005. The GTS segment fourth-quarter pre-tax margin was 9.3 percent, down 3.7 points as compared to a strong fourth quarter of 2005. The company is continuing to make investments in sales, delivery and business development skills across its entire set of offerings, as well as investing in strategic outsourcing infrastructure and BTO capabilities. Global Business Services revenue increased 6.1 percent (3 percent adjusted for currency) led by solid performance in consulting. Revenue performance improved during the second half of 2006, as the company expanded its focus from operational transformation to a focus on profitable growth. Shorter term signings increased 13.5 percent year to year due primarily to strength in higher value add engagements. Longer term signings increased over 200 percent in the fourth quarter driven primarily by AMS. The GBS segment fourth- quarter pre-tax margin improved 2.3 points to 11.8 percent driven by improved resource utilization, strong contract management and delivery, and stable-to-improved pricing.
 Systems and Technology Group segment revenue was $7.1 billion and increased 3.2 percent as reported (flat adjusted for currency), when compared to the fourth quarter of 2005. System z revenue increased 4.5 percent, with MIPS volume growth of 6 percent year to year. System i revenue declined 10.1 percent as sales of upgrades declined year to year as customers continue to leverage their existing capability. Revenue from System p grew 3.5 percent, driven by high-end server sales as customers leverage the platform’s virtualization capabilities to consolidate multiple smaller servers into high-end servers. System x server revenue increased 6.8 percent with growth in both EMEA and Asia Pacific, partially offset by decreased revenue in the Americas as customers continue to evaluate processor alternatives. Blades revenue was essentially flat year over year, with growth in both EMEA and Asia Pacific offset by a decline in the Americas. Storage products increased 9.3 percent, driven by growth in Total disk products of 11.8 percent. Tape products increased 3.9 percent on the continued strength of the new tape security offering. Microelectronics OEM revenue declined 5.6 percent when compared to a very strong fourth quarter of 2005. Retail Store Solutions increased 24.9 percent as customers are replacing older technology in favor of integrated retail solutions.  Software segment revenue of $5.6 billion, increased 14.4 percent (11 percent adjusted for currency), reflecting strong demand for the company’s industry-leading middleware capabilities. In the fourth quarter, revenue from key branded middleware increased 25.1 percent (21 percent adjusted for currency), with all of the five brands delivering double-digit growth. The growth came from both organic sources and strategic acquisitions. The major acquisitions for the year of FileNet, MRO and Micromuse contributed to the growth in the Information Management and Tivoli brands. The WebSphere family of software grew 21.8 percent, with continued strong performance from Application Servers and Business Integration products. Information Management software increased 27.9 percent, driven by the company’s distributed relational database and information on demand product sets. Lotus grew 29.7 percent, benefiting from strong momentum in its Notes/Domino family of collaboration products and broad adoption of its enhanced version of Sametime, which started shipping in the third quarter of 2006. Tivoli increased 25.4 percent with double-digit growth in Systems Management, Security and Storage software. Rational increased 12.0 percent in a slower growing market. In addition to the strong revenue growth in the fourth quarter, the software segment had pre-tax profit of $2.0 billion, an increase of 4.1 percent year to year. The pre-tax margin of 32.3 percent decreased 3.2 points versus 2005, primarily due to the integration of new acquisitions.  Global Financing revenue increased 2.9 percent (flat adjusted for currency), driven primarily by client financing revenue due to an increased average asset base.  The company’s consolidated gross profit margin was 44.6 percent in the fourth quarter, compared with 44.1 percent in the year-ago period. The increase of 0.5 points was driven primarily by improved margins in services and a mix towards the higher margin software business.  Total expense and other income increased 11.1 percent compared to the prior-year period. Selling, general and administrative expense increased 7.0 percent (4 percent adjusted for currency), driven primarily by investments the company made in its software and services businesses, emerging markets and acquisitions. Partially offsetting these increases was the year-over-year decline from the pre-tax curtailment charge of $267 million related to pension changes recorded in the fourth quarter of 2005. RD&E expense increased 8.8 percent in the fourth quarter, driven partially by acquisitions with the remainder reflecting the company’s ongoing investments to maintain technology leadership across its products and services. Other (income) and expense was $150 million of income, a reduction of $184 million (55.0 percent) versus the fourth quarter of 2005. In the prior year, gains on real estate transactions were unusually high due to several large transactions compared with current year real estate activity.  The company’s effective tax rate in the fourth-quarter 2006 was 28.0 percent compared with 29.5 percent in the fourth quarter of 2005. The 1.5 point decrease in the fourth-quarter 2006 tax rate was primarily attributable to the net effect of several items in the quarter. In 2006, the fourth-quarter tax rate was favorably impacted by the settlement of the U.S. federal income tax audit for the years 2001 through 2003 as well as the retroactive reinstatement of the U.S. research tax credit during the quarter. These benefits were partially offset by the one-time tax cost associated with the intercompany transfer of certain intellectual property, which also occurred in the 
Management Discussion ........................................................12 	Road	Map	............................................................................. 12 	Forward-Looking	and	Cautionary	Statements	..................... 13 	Management	Discussion	Snapshot	...................................... 14 	Description	of	Business	....................................................... 15fourth quarter. In addition, the quarter also benefited from a more favorable mix of income in lower tax jurisdictions.  Share repurchases totaled approximately $1.4 billion in the fourth quarter. The weighted-average number of diluted common shares outstanding in the fourth-quarter 2006 was 1,532.5 million compared with 1,604.8 million in the same period of 2005. The company generated $5,334 million in cash flow provided by operating activities. This was driven primarily by net income and continued focus on working capital. Net cash used in investing activities of $5,634 million, increased significantly ($4,203 million) versus the fourth quarter of 2005, driven primarily by increased spending on acquisitions.
prior year in review	Continuing operations(Dollars and shares in millions except per share amounts)	 	 	yr. to yr.  	 	 	perCent/  	 	 	Margin for the year ended deCeMBer 31: 	2005 	2004 	ChangeRevenue $			91,134	$	96,293	(5.4)Gross profit margin 40.1%	36.9%	3.2Total expense and   	other income $	24,306	$	24,900	(2.4)Total expense and other  	income-to-revenue ratio 26.7%	25.9%	0.8Income from continuing  operations before   income taxes $	12,226	$	10,669	14.6Provision for income taxes $		4,232	$		3,172	33.4Income from continuing  operations $		7,994	$		7,497	6.6Loss from discontinued  operations $					(24)	$					(18)	38.2Income before cumulative  effect of change in  accounting principle $		7,970	$		7,479	6.6Cumulative effect of change  	in accounting principle,  	net of tax+ $					(36)	$					—	NMNet income $		7,934	$		7,479	6.1Earnings per share of  	common stock:  Assuming dilution:    Continuing operations $			4.91	$			4.39	11.8    Discontinued operations 		(0.01)	(0.01)	45.0 	  Cumulative effect of      change in accounting      principle+ (0.02)	—	NMTotal $			4.87	$			4.38	11.2Weighted-average shares  	outstanding:  	Assuming dilution 1,627.6	1,707.2	(4.7)Assets** $105,748	$111,003	(4.7)Liabilities** $	72,650	$	79,315	(8.4)Equity** $	33,098	$	31,688	4.4 %* 	pts.%	pts.%%%%%%%%%% %%%*	(5.8)	percent	adjusted	for	currency.	**	At	December	31.+		Reflects	implementation	of	FASB	Interpretation	No.	47.	See	note	B,	“Accounting	Changes,”	on	page	72	for	additional	information.	NM—Not	meaningfulin 2005, the company delivered solid growth in earnings and cash generation, balanced across its businesses and executed a series of actions to improve productivity and to reallocate resources to the faster growing areas of the business. The company’s reported results include the Personal Computing business for four months in 2005 versus 12 months in 2004. Total revenue, as reported, declined 5.4 percent versus 2004; excluding the Personal Computing business external revenue from both years, total revenue increased 3.2 percent (2.8 percent adjusted for currency). Pre-tax income from continuing operations grew 14.6 percent, while diluted earnings per share from continuing operations increased 11.8 percent compared to 2004. Net cash provided by operating activities was $14,914 million. The company’s financial performance in 2005 was driven by a combination of segment performance, portfolio actions and execution of the company’s productivity initiatives. 	The increase in revenue, excluding the Personal Computing business, in 2005 as compared to 2004 was primarily due to:• Improving	demand	in	the	hardware	business	driven	by	System	p	and		System	x	server	products,	as	well	as	Storage	products,	Microelectronics		and	Engineering	and	Technology	Services;• Improved	demand	in	the	software	business,	driven	by	key	branded		middleware	products;	and• Continued	growth	in	emerging	countries	(up	23	percent).	The increase in income from continuing operations in 2005 as compared to 2004 was primarily due to:• Moderate	revenue	growth	in	the	Hardware	and	Software	segments		as	discussed	above;• Execution	of	the	company’s	restructuring	and	productivity	initiatives,		primarily	focused	on	Global	Services;	and• Improved	demand	and	continued	operational	improvement	in	the	Microelectronics	business.In addition to improved earnings, in 2005, the company executed a series of important actions that benefited the company’s performance in the current year and strengthened its capabilities going forward. These actions included:• Completion	of	the	divestiture	of	the	Personal	Computing	business		to	Lenovo;• Continuation	of	investment	in	acquisitions	to	strengthen	the	company’s	on	demand	capabilities;	in	2005,	the	company	completed	16	acquisitions	at	a	cost	of	approximately	$2	billion;• Implementation	of	a	large	restructuring	action	to	improve	the	company’s	cost	competitiveness;
• Change	of	the	company’s	operating	model	in	Europe—shifting		resources	and	decision-making	closer	to	the	clients;	• Redesign	of	the	company’s	U.S.	pension	plan,	as	well	as	taking	actions	in	other	countries;	over	the	longer	term,	these	actions	will	reduce		volatility	and	provide	a	more	competitive	cost	structure;• Repatriation	of	$9.5	billion	of	foreign	earnings	under	the	American	Jobs	Creation	Act	of	2004	improving	the	company’s	geographic		liquidity	position;	and• Further	extension	of	the	company’s	commitment	to	innovation	and		open	standards.On April 30, 2005, the company sold its Personal Computing business. Accordingly, the company’s reported revenue results include four months of revenue for the Personal Computing Division in 2005 versus 12 months in 2004. A significant driver of the changes in revenue, on an as-reported basis, is the incomparable periods for which the Personal Computing business results are included in the asreported results.  As-reported revenue across all industry sectors declined, except for the Distribution sector, which was essentially flat, due to the sale of the Personal Computing business. The Financial Services revenue decrease (1.7 percent) was driven by Financial Markets (12.2 percent) partially offset by increases in Insurance (1.9 percent) and Banking (0.5 percent). The Public sector revenue decline (5.1 percent) was driven by Education (31.0 percent), Life Sciences (19.1 percent) and Government (2.0 percent), partially offset by increased revenue in Healthcare (13.1 percent). The Distribution sector revenue increase (0.1 percent) was driven by Travel and Transportation (11.0 percent) and Consumer Products (2.6 percent), partially offset by lower revenue in Retail industry (7.5 percent). The decrease (3.4 percent) in Communications sector revenue was driven by Media and Entertainment (11.5 percent), Utilities (5.4 percent) and Telecommunications (1.1 percent). Revenue from Small & Medium Business declined 13.6 percent.  Americas’ revenue declined 3.1 percent (4 percent adjusted for currency) and was driven by the sale of the Personal Computing business. The U.S. declined 5 percent, while Canada increased 5 percent (declined 3 percent adjusted for currency) and Latin America increased 8 percent (declined 2 percent adjusted for currency).  Revenue in EMEA declined (5.1 percent as reported and 4 percent adjusted for currency) across most major countries driven by the sale of the Personal Computing business. Of the major countries, Germany declined 12 percent (11 percent adjusted for currency), France declined 7 percent (6 percent adjusted for currency), Italy declined 11 percent (10 percent adjusted for currency), the U.K. declined 1 percent (flat adjusted for currency) and Spain declined 1 percent (flat adjusted for currency). Asia Pacific had the weakest results (decreased 12.5 percent as reported and 13 percent adjusted for currency) of the major geographies in 2005. Japan, which represents about 60 percent of the Asia Pacific revenue base, declined 13 percent (11 percent adjusted for currency) in 2005 versus 2004. In addition, ASEAN (Association of Southeast Asian Nations) revenue declined 3 percent (3 percent adjusted for currency) and China declined 19 percent (20 percent adjusted for currency), while India revenue increased 10 percent (8 percent adjusted for currency). The company continued to invest in growth initiatives in its emerging countries. Revenue growth in these emerging countries was driven by client investment to build out their infrastructures, especially in the Financial Services sector. Overall revenue in these countries declined 2 percent (9 percent adjusted for currency). The declines were driven by the sale of the Personal Computing business. China declined 19 percent (20 percent adjusted for currency), while Brazil’s revenue grew 21 percent (1 percent adjusted for currency), India’s revenue grew 10 percent (8 percent adjusted for currency) and Russia’s revenue increased 2 percent (2 percent adjusted for currency).  OEM revenue increased 13.4 percent primarily due to improved manufacturing yields for game processors driven by the ramp up of production for these processors in the second half of 2005. In addition, E&TS revenue continued to show strong revenue growth.  The company believes that a more appropriate discussion is one that excludes the revenue results of the Personal Computing business in both 2005 and 2004 because it presents results on a comparable basis and provides a more meaningful discussion which focuses on the company’s ongoing operational performance.  Revenue across all Industry sectors increased, except for the Industrial sector, when excluding revenue from the Personal Computing business. Revenue growth was lead by Small & Medium Business (6.5 percent) followed by the Public sector (5.4 percent), 
Management Discussion ........................................................12 	Road	Map	............................................................................. 12 	Forward-Looking	and	Cautionary	Statements	..................... 13 	Management	Discussion	Snapshot	...................................... 14 	Description	of	Business	....................................................... 15Distribution sector (5.0 percent), Financial Services (1.7 percent) and Communications (0.8 percent). Revenue from the Industrial sector declined 2.3 percent.  Revenue in all geographies increased in 2005 versus 2004, with the exception of Asia Pacific. Americas’ revenue increased 5.1 percent (4 percent adjusted for currency) with growth across all key brands and regions. Revenue in EMEA increased 2.3 percent (4 percent adjusted for currency) with mixed performance across the major countries. Asia Pacific revenue decreased 0.9 percent (1 percent adjusted for currency). Overall revenue in the emerging countries of Brazil, India, Russia and China increased a combined 23 percent (14 percent adjusted for currency) in 2005 versus 2004.    The following is an analysis of the reportable segment results for Global Services, Hardware and Software. The Global Financing analysis is included in the Global Financing section on pages 49 and 50.global servicesGlobal Services revenue increased 2.4 percent (2.0 percent adjusted for currency) in 2005 versus 2004. (Dollars in millions) 	  yr. to yr.for the year ended deCeMBer 31: 2005 2004 ChangeGlobal Services   	segment revenue: $47,407	$46,283	2.4Global Technology Services $31,501	$30,082	4.7 	Strategic Outsourcing 16,522	15,957	3.5 	Integrated Technology   	 Services 7,538	7,441	1.3 	Business Transformation  	 Outsourcing 1,573	988	59.2 	Maintenance 5,868	5,696	3.0Global Business Services $15,906	$16,201	(1.8)%% %Global Technology Services revenue increased 4.7 percent (4 percent adjusted for currency). Although SO revenue continued to grow (3.5 percent), it experienced a slowdown in its revenue growth rate due to the impact of high levels of backlog erosion experienced in 2004 and the cumulative effect of lower signings, starting in 2004 through the first quarter of 2005. SO revenue growth was driven by EMEA (10 percent) and Asia Pacific (1 percent), while the Americas was essentially flat. ITS signings were down 7 percent in 2005 versus 2004. The ITS business is more dependent upon short-term signings for revenue growth and signings declines in the third and fourth quarter impacted the overall revenue growth rate (1.3 percent) for 2005. The company began to rebalance its ITS offerings and shift its business development and delivery capabilities and skills to higher growth areas in the third quarter of 2005. The company’s BTO business continued its strong year-to-year growth (59.2 percent) due to signings performance in both 2004 and 2005. Revenue growth was strong across all geographies.  Global Business Services revenue decreased 1.8 percent (2 percent adjusted for currency) in 2005 versus 2004. Revenue declined 10 percent in both Asia Pacific and EMEA and increased in the Americas by 14 percent. The company’s Consulting and Systems Integration business had many areas of growth, with strong performance in the Strategy and Change and Supply Chain Management practices. This overall growth was mitigated by weakness year to year in Japan, Germany and the company’s Federal Business in the U.S. However, across all practices, the company drove improved resource utilization and pricing trends remained stable to improving. hardware(Dollars in millions) %	  yr. to yr.for the year ended deCeMBer 31: 2005 2004 ChangeHardware segment revenue: $23,857	$30,710	(22.3) 	Systems and Technology  	 Group $20,981	$19,973	5.0 	  System z   (7.6) 	  System i   0.8 	  System p   14.6 	  System x   5.9 	  System Storage    15.3 	  Microelectronics   15.6 	  Engineering &  	   Technology Services   39.2 	  Retail Store Solutions   (23.0) 	  Printing Systems   (8.6) 	Personal Computing Division 	2,876	10,737	NM%NM—Not	meaningfulSystems and Technology Group revenue increased 5.0 percent (5 percent adjusted for currency) in 2005 versus 2004. System p server revenue increased 14.6 percent with double-digit growth in all geographies as clients continue to recognize the strength and leadership of the POWER architecture. In October 2005, the company announced a new POWER5+ processor that included the industry’s first Quad Core Module, which puts four processor cores on a single piece of ceramic. System i server revenue increased 0.8 percent driven by broad demand for the company’s POWER5 based offerings. In 2005, System i added over 2,500 new clients, reflecting a continued commitment to the platform from ISVs, resellers and clients. Within System x, server revenue increased 7 percent despite strong competitive pressures driving lower prices, particularly in EMEA and Asia. The company’s momentum in Blades remained strong with revenue growth of 65 percent in 2005 versus 2004. Although System z server revenue declined 7.6 percent versus 2004, MIPS volumes grew 7 percent in 2005. The MIPS growth was driven by the company’s new System z9 which began shipping in late September 2005. System z clients continued to add new workloads to this platform as they build their on demand infrastructure. These new workloads have accelerated Java and Linux adoption on the System z platform. System Storage revenue growth (15.3 percent) was driven by Total disk revenue growth of 19 percent, while tape grew 9 percent in 2005 versus 2004. Within External disk, mid-range disk and enterprise products both had strong revenue growth of approximately 24 percent in 2005 versus 2004.    Microelectronics revenue increased 15.6 percent due to improved manufacturing yields and volumes for game processors. The fourth quarter of 2005 was the first full quarter of production for these processors. Partially offsetting this increase was a softening of demand for some of the company’s older technology. E&TS revenue continued to show strong growth (39.2 percent) as it represents a unique opportunity for the company to leverage its deep capabilities, expertise and assets in engineering design to benefit client engineering and R&D processes.  Retail Stores Solutions revenue decreased 23.0 percent primarily due to a number of large transactions in 2004 and demand from these clients declined in 2005. Printing Systems revenue decreased 8.6 percent due primarily to lower hardware and maintenance sales. Personal Computing Division revenue decreased as a result of the company divesting its Personal Computing business to Lenovo on April 30, 2005. The 2005 results have four months of revenue versus 12 months in 2004. software(Dollars in millions) 	  yr. to yr.for the year ended deCeMBer 31: 2005 2004* ChangeSoftware segment revenue: $16,830	$16,141	4.3 	Middleware $12,552	$11,968	4.9 	 Key Branded Middleware 7,957	7,306 8.9 	  WebSphere family   10.2 	  Information Management   8.2 	  Lotus   9.7 	  Tivoli   11.5 	  Rational   3.6 	 Other middleware 4,595	4,662 (1.4) 	Operating systems 2,426	2,474	(2.0) 	Product Lifecycle 	 Management 1,077	1,047	2.9 	Other 775	652	18.8%%*	Reclassified	to	conform	with	2005	presentation.Software revenue increased 4.3 percent (4 percent adjusted for currency) in 2005 versus 2004 as the software market remained highly competitive. Revenue growth was driven by the performance of the key Middleware brands, which increased 8.9 percent.    Revenue from the WebSphere family of products increased 10.2 percent with growth in WebSphere Application Servers (15 percent) and WebSphere Portals (12 percent) versus 2004. The WebSphere family provides the foundation technologies for clients implementing business processes and applications in a Services Oriented Architecture (SOA).  Information Management increased 8.2 percent driven by growth in content management and information integration products. Lotus increased 9.7 percent as clients continue to demonstrate strong response to the Domino Version 7 product line, as well as high interest in Workplace software. Workplace software more than doubled its revenue in 2005 versus 2004. Tivoli increased 11.5 percent with strong growth in storage software as clients’ adoption of the company’s virtualization technologies continued to gain traction. Tivoli systems management and security software offerings also had good revenue growth in 2005 versus 2004. The security products revenue was driven by the company’s new SOA Security offerings. Rational increased 3.6 percent in 2005 versus 2004; however, late in the fourth quarter of 2005, client buying deferrals prevented stronger performance. Revenue from Other middleware products, including host software products such as compilers, certain tools and Other Storage and Printer software declined 1.4 percent versus 2004. Operating Systems revenue declined 2.0 percent in 2005 versus 2004, primarily due to lower System z and System p revenue, partially offset by increased System i and System x revenue.  Product Lifecycle Management revenue increased 2.9 percent in 2005 versus 2004, primarily for Industrial (5 percent) and Small & Medium Business clients (2 percent).  The company’s consolidated gross profit margin increased 3.2 points versus 2004 to 40.1 percent. Margin improvement in both Hardware and Global Services contributed to the overall increase.  Global Services gross profit margin increased 1.8 points year to year to 26.0 percent due to benefits from the restructuring actions taken in the second quarter of 2005, improved utilization/productivity and a better overall contract profile.  The increase in Hardware margins of 5.5 points to 36.5 percent was primarily due to the divestiture of the Personal Computing business (which had a lower gross profit margin than the other hardware 
Management Discussion ........................................................12 	Road	Map	............................................................................. 12 	Forward-Looking	and	Cautionary	Statements	..................... 13 	Management	Discussion	Snapshot	...................................... 14 	Description	of	Business	....................................................... 15businesses) in the second quarter of 2005. The absence of the Personal Computing business contributed 3.8 points to the increase in the 2005 margin. Microelectronics’ margin increased due to improving yields.  The Software margin at 84.9 percent increased 0.3 points due to growth in Software revenue and reduced external royalty costs.  Total expense and other income decreased 2.4 percent (3 percent adjusted for currency) in 2005 versus 2004. Overall, the decrease was primarily due to the gain associated with the divestiture of the Personal Computing business ($1,108 million), a gain from a legal settlement with Microsoft ($775 million) partially offset by incremental restructuring charges ($1,706 million) recorded in the second quarter of 2005. The expense-to-revenue ratio increased 0.8 points to 26.7 percent in 2005, as revenue declined 5.4 percent and expense declined 2.4 percent in 2005 versus 2004.    Total SG&A expense of $21,314 million increased 6.1 percent (6 percent adjusted for currency). The increase was primarily driven by the restructuring charges recorded in the second quarter of 2005. In addition, retirement-related expenses increased ($236 million) in 2005. These increases were partially offset by lower operational expenses as a result of the restructuring actions and the Personal Computing business divestiture, lower stock-based compensation expense of $308 million and lower ongoing workforce reductions. In addition, Bad debt expense declined $164 million primarily due to decreased specific reserve requirements, an overall reduction in the financing asset portfolio, an improvement in economic conditions and improved credit quality. Other (income) and expense was income of $2,122 million and $23 million in 2005 and 2004, respectively. The increase was primarily driven by the gain on the sale of the Personal Computing business. The pre-tax gain associated with this transaction was $1,108 million. In addition, the company settled certain antitrust issues with the Microsoft Corporation and the gain from this settlement was $775 million; additional Interest income ($127 million) generated by the company in 2005; and lower foreign currency transaction losses of $211 million, which relate to losses on certain hedge contracts offset by settlement of foreign currency receivables and payables. The company also had additional gains ($108 million) from the sale of certain real estate transactions in 2005 versus 2004. These gains were partially offset by real-estate related restructuring charges recorded in the second quarter of 2005. Research, development and engineering (RD&E) expense of $5,842 million decreased $32 million or 0.6 percent driven by the sale of the Personal Computing business in the second quarter of 2005 ($93 million) and lower spending in Microelectronics ($93 million) and Software ($25 million). These decreases were partially offset by increased spending in Systems and Technology for server products ($171 million). Included in RD&E expense was increased retirement-related expense of $95 million and a decrease of $94 million for stock-based compensation expense in 2005 versus 2004.  Intellectual property (IP) and custom development income of $948 million decreased $222 million or 19.0 percent in 2005 versus 2004. The decrease was driven by Sales and other transfers of intellectual property ($230 million) due primarily to Applied Micro Circuits Corporation’s (AMCC) acquisition of the company’s IP associated with its embedded PowerPC 4xx standard products for $208 million in 2004. 	The provision for income taxes resulted in an effective tax rate of 34.6 percent for 2005, compared with the 2004 effective tax rate of 29.7 percent. The 4.9 point increase in the effective tax rate in 2005 was primarily due to the third-quarter 2005 tax charge associated with the repatriation of $9.5 billion under the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004.  Assets of $105,748 million declined $5,256 million or 4.7 percent, of which, $5,715 million of the year-to-year decrease relates to the impact of currency translation. Other asset changes primarily consisted of an increase in Cash and cash equivalents, an increase in Goodwill associated with 2005 acquisitions and increased Prepaid pension assets. These increases were partially offset by lower financing receivables and lower deferred tax assets.DisContinueD operationson December 31, 2002, the company sold its hDD business to hitachi for approximately $2 billion. The final cash payment of $399 million was received on December 30, 2005. In addition, the company paid Hitachi $80 million to settle warranty obligations during 2005. These transactions were consistent with the company’s previous estimates. The HDD business was accounted for as a discontinued operation whereby the results of operations and cash flows were removed from the company’s results from continuing operations for all periods presented. In 2006, the company reported net income of $76 million, net of tax, primarily related to tax benefits from tax audit settlements. The company incurred a loss from discontinued operations of $24 million in 2005 and $18 million in 2004, net of tax. These losses were primarily due to additional costs associated with parts warranty as agreed upon by the company and Hitachi, under the terms of the agreement for the sale of the HDD business to Hitachi.other inForMation looking ForwarDthe following key drivers impacting the company’s business are discussed on page 21: • Economic	environment	and	corporate	spending	budgets;• Internal	business	transformation	and	global	integration	initiatives;	• Innovation	initiatives;	• Open	standards;	and	• Investing	in	growth	opportunities.Looking forward, while uncertainties make forecasts difficult, based on economic indicators, the company anticipates moderate growth for the world economy, capital investment and the traditional IT industry. The pace of globalization is expected to increase competition, further driving clients to innovate and transform their business models, processes and practices, all of which create opportunities for the company.  As highlighted in the Management Discussion Snapshot on page 14, the company has successfully transformed its business model over the past several years. This transformation led to the company’s performance in 2006 and has positioned it to capture additional market opportunities worldwide going forward. The company has a significant global presence, operating in 170 countries, with approximately 60 percent of its revenue generated outside the United States. In addition, approximately 65 percent of the company’s employees are located outside the United States, including about 30 percent in Asia Pacific. This global reach gives the company access to markets, with local management teams who understand the clients and their challenges and who can respond to these opportunities with value-add solutions. In emerging markets, the company will continue to invest for revenue growth and leadership. The company has had good success in the emerging markets of China, India, Russia and Brazil. These countries have been among the fastest growing IT markets in the world, and the company expects them to continue to grow at a rate greater than the worldwide IT growth rate for several years.  As a globally integrated enterprise, the company will continue to leverage the skills and capabilities of its global infrastructure and workforce. The company’s global scale provides a base to leverage its investments and continue to focus on increased productivity and efficiency in the coming year. In 2006, the company expanded its global delivery centers—improving its services delivery to clients—and significantly increased its resources in service delivery centers. Going forward, the company will also continue the global integration of its internal support functions with a continued objective of increased productivity.  With respect to technology, in 2006, the company was awarded more U.S. patents than any other company for the fourteenth year in a row. The company remains committed to technology leadership and will continue to focus internal development investments on highvalue, high-growth opportunities and to broaden its ability to deliver client and industry solutions. The company will also continue to selectively pursue acquisitions to grow its capabilities. The company has a targeted acquisition strategy and has developed the ability to efficiently acquire, integrate and accelerate new product and service offerings. In addition, the company will continue to evaluate underperforming and less strategic areas of its portfolio. The company’s continued investments in Software have led to this segment’s emergence as a strong source of revenue growth and the largest contributor to the company’s profit in 2006. The company’s Software is differentiated in the industry by both the strength of its individual products and the breadth of the software offerings. The key to the company’s continued Software growth stems from the ability to maintain and grow this industry-leading software business. The company expects to accomplish this through a combination of internal development and strategic acquisitions. These products will be rapidly developed and integrated to bring continued value to clients.  In addition, continued Software growth is also dependent on the company’s ability to bring these technologies to market effectively, leveraging its worldwide sales and marketing capabilities. The company will continue to invest in sales and marketing resources, targeting the faster growing regions, sectors and technologies in the industry. Finally, growth is fueled by the rapid deployment of these technologies in client accounts. The company’s unique ability to combine Software, Services and Hardware into robust customer solutions increases the rate of Software deployment, leading to higher loyalty rates and improved Software annuity streams. Within the Global Services business, revenue growth improved over the course of the year and the company saw results from the targeted actions and investments it has made the past two years. The Integrated Technology Services business is improving after rebalancing its offerings and resources. Global Business Services significantly improved profitability. The company will continue to make investments in sales, delivery and business development across its services offerings. The company will also continue to optimize its resources and processes to increase productivity and improve flexibility and scalability. The key to future success in Services will come from the company’s ability to integrate its business globally, leverage both local and global skills and effectively use technology to create solutions that deliver value and cost savings for clients. The company’s Systems and Technology Group is the leader in servers. Through continued development investment, the company introduced POWER5+, extended virtualization capabilities and provided leading technology for all major game platforms in 2006. Going forward, the company will focus its investments on differentiating technologies with high-growth potential including POWER6, blades, high-performance computing and energy efficiency. In the Microelectronics business, the company anticipates that game processor demand will continue to moderate through the first half of 2007 given the seasonality of the consumer segment. As discussed in note X, “Subsequent Events,” on page 115, the company will form a joint venture with Ricoh based on the company’s Printing Systems Division and initially have a 49 percent ownership interest in the joint venture. This transaction is expected to close in the second quarter of 2007, and the company will continue to operate this business in the normal course until the closing.  The company expects 2007 pre-tax retirement-related plan expense 
Management Discussion ........................................................12 	Road	Map	............................................................................. 12 	Forward-Looking	and	Cautionary	Statements	..................... 13 	Management	Discussion	Snapshot	...................................... 14 	Description	of	Business	....................................................... 15to increase approximately $100 million when compared to 2006. This expected year-to-year change is primarily driven by an increase in the cost of defined contribution plans. The cost of defined benefit plans is estimated to be essentially flat year to year as increases due to changes in the actuarial assumptions (used to determine 2007 expense) will be offset by expected savings due to better-than-expected 2006 return on asset performance. The actual return on the U.S. Personal Pension Plan (PPP) assets for 2006 was 15 percent. Pre-tax stock-based compensation expense declined $189 million in 2006, compared to 2005. The company expects stock-based compensation expense to decline in 2007, when compared to 2006. The anticipated decline is expected to be less than $100 million on a pre-tax basis. The amount of IP and custom development income has been declining in recent years, down 5 percent in 2006 and 19 percent in 2005. A moderate declining trend may continue as the company does not expect IP income to be a contributor to growth. The overall level of IP income is dependent on several factors: divestitures, industry consolidation, economic conditions and the timing of new patents and know-how development. The company’s business is designed to be measured over the long term. The strategies that the company deploys, investments and any other actions are implemented with an objective of optimizing the company’s long-term performance. In the coming year, the company expects to take actions to continue its transformation and improve the business. These actions are done within the framework of managing the business for sustainability and to deliver the company’s long-term objective of 10 to 12 percent earnings per share growth.income taxesthe company expects that its effective tax rate in 2007 will be approximately 28.5 percent. This rate is lower than the company’s historical expected tax rate of 30 percent due to an expectation of a more favorable mix of income in lower tax jurisdictions. The rate will change year to year based on non-recurring events, such as the settlement of income tax audits, as well as recurring factors including the geographic mix of income before taxes, the timing and amount of foreign dividend repatriation, state and local taxes and the effects of various global income tax strategies. In 2006 and 2005, the company’s cash tax rate was approximately 16 percent.  The company’s cash tax rate represents the amount of income taxes paid during the year over Income from continuing operations before income taxes. The cash tax rate differs from the company’s effective tax rate due to a number of variables including, but not limited to, certain items of income and expense that are recognized in different years for financial reporting purposes than for income tax purposes, differences in currency rates used in the translation of the non-U.S. income tax provision and income tax payments and current year cash tax payments or refunds that are related to prior years. The company anticipates that its cash tax rate will increase in the near term as the company has now fully utilized its U.S. federal tax credit carryforwards.liQuiDity anD Capital resourCesthe company has consistently generated strong cash flow from operations, providing a source of funds ranging between $13.8 billion and $15.3 billion per year over the past five years. The company provides for additional liquidity through several sources; maintaining a sizable cash balance, access to global funding sources and a committed global credit facility. The following table provides a summary of these major sources of liquidity for the years ended December 31, 2002 through 2006.Cash Flow and liquidity trends(Dollars in billions)	2006 2005 2004 2003 2002Net cash from   	operating activities $15.0	$14.9	$15.3	$14.5	$13.8Cash and short-term   	marketable securities $10.7	$13.7	$10.6	$	7.6	$	6.0Size of global   	credit facilities $10.0	$10.0	$10.0	$10.0	$12.0Trade receivables   	securitization facility $  —	$	0.5	$	0.5	$				—	$			—The major rating agencies’ ratings on the company’s debt securities at December 31, 2006 appear in the following table and remain unchanged over the past five years. The company has no contractual arrangements that, in the event of a change in credit rating, would result in a material adverse effect on its financial position or liquidity.	Standard Moody’S   	and inveStorS fitCh   	poor’S ServiCe ratingSSenior long-term debt 	A+	A1	AA-Commercial paper 	A-1	Prime-1	F1+The company prepares its Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows in accordance with SFAS No. 95, “Statement of Cash Flows,” on page 58 and highlights causes and events underlying sources and uses of cash in that format on page 33. For purposes of running its business, the company manages, monitors and analyzes cash flows in a different format.  As discussed on page 49, one of the company’s two primary objectives of its Global Financing business is to generate strong return on equity. Increasing receivables is the basis for growth in a financing business. Accordingly, management considers Global Financing receivables as a profit-generating investment, not as working capital that should be minimized for efficiency. After classifying Global Financing accounts receivables as an investment, the remaining net cash flow is viewed by the company as the Cash available for investment and for distribution to shareholders. With respect to the company’s cash flow analysis for internal management purposes (see the table on page 44), Global Financing accounts receivables are combined with Global Financing debt to represent the Net Global Financing debt to accounts receivable (a profit-generating investment). From the perspective of how management views cash flows, in 2006, net cash from operating activities, excluding Global Financing receivables, was $15.3 billion, an increase of $2.2 billion compared to 2005. This cash performance was driven primarily by the growth in net income from continuing operations, continued focus on working capital and lower pension funding year over year. The company returned over 100 percent of net income in 2006 to shareholders in dividend payments and share repurchases. Over the past five years, the company generated over $64.3 billion in Cash available for investment and for distribution to shareholders. As a result, during that period the company invested $20.5 billion of net 
(Dollars in billions)for the year ended deCeMBer 31: 	 	 2006 2005 2004 2003 2002Net cash from operating activities   	(Continuing Operations): 	 $15.0	$14.9	$15.3	$14.5	$13.8Less: Global Financing accounts receivable 	 (0.3)	1.8	2.5	1.9	3.3Net cash from operating activities (Continuing  	Operations), excluding Global Financing receivables 15.3	13.1	12.9	12.6	10.5Investing Activities: 	Capital expenditures, net 	 (4.7)	(3.5)	(3.7)	(3.9)	(4.6) 	 	Global Financing accounts receivable 	 (0.3)	1.8	2.5	1.9	3.3 	 	Global Financing debt 	 1.0	(0.6)	(1.7)	(2.6)	(3.1) 	 	Net Global Financing debt to accounts receivable 0.8	1.3	0.7	(0.7)	0.2Acquisitions 	 (3.8)	(1.5)	(1.7)	(1.8)	(3.2)Divestitures 	 —	0.9	—	0.1	1.2Return to shareholders: 	Share Repurchase 	 (8.1)	(7.7)	(7.1)	(4.3)	(4.2) 	Dividends 	 (1.7)	(1.2)	(1.2)	(1.1)	(1.0)Change in non-Global Financing debt 	 (1.1)	1.2	0.7	(0.9)	(0.1)Other  	 0.4	0.7	2.5	1.9	1.4Discontinued operations 	 —	—	(0.1)	(0.2)	(0.7)Change in cash, cash equivalents  and short-term marketable securities 	 $ (3.0)		$	3.1	$	2.9	$	1.7	$	(0.4)capital expenditures, invested $12.0 billion in strategic acquisitions, received $2.3 billion from divestitures and returned $37.7 billion to shareholders through dividends and share repurchases. The amount of prospective returns to shareholders in the form of dividends and share repurchases will vary based upon several factors including each year’s operating results, capital expenditures, research and development and acquisitions, as well as the factors discussed following the table below.   The company’s Board of Directors meets quarterly to consider the dividend payment. The company expects to fund dividend payments through cash from operations. In the second quarter of 2006, the Board of Directors increased the company’s quarterly common stock dividend from $0.20 to $0.30 per share. The table below represents the way in which management reviews cash flow as described on page 43.
Events that could temporarily change the historical cash flow dynamics discussed above include significant changes in operating results, material changes in geographic sources of cash, unexpected adverse impacts from litigation or future pension funding during periods of severe and prolonged downturn in the capital markets. Whether any litigation has such an adverse impact will depend on a number of variables, which are more completely described on page 91. With respect to pension funding, in the first quarter of 2006, the company Management Discussion ........................................................12 	Road	Map	............................................................................. 12 	Forward-Looking	and	Cautionary	Statements	..................... 13 	Management	Discussion	Snapshot	...................................... 14 	Description	of	Business	....................................................... 1522374141contributed approximately $1 billion to the U.K. pension plan, and on January 19, 2005, the company contributed $1.7 billion to the qualified portion of the PPP, a U.S. defined benefit plan. As highlighted in the Contractual Obligations table on page 45, the company expects to make legally mandated pension plan contributions to certain nonU.S. plans of approximately $2.6 billion in the next five years. The company is not quantifying any further impact from pension funding because it is not possible to predict future movements in the capital markets or pension plan funding regulations. As discussed in note B, “Accounting Changes,” on page 71, the company implemented SFAS No. 158 effective December 31, 2006. The effects of applying SFAS No. 158 on the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position are highlighted in the table on page 101. The adoption of SFAS No. 158 will have no impact on the company’s existing debt covenants, credit ratings or financial flexibility. The Pension Protection Act of 2006 (the Act) was enacted into law in 2006, and, among other things, increases the funding requirements for certain U.S. defined benefit plans beginning after December 31, 2007. The company currently does not expect the Act to have a material effect on the company’s minimum mandatory contributions to its U.S. defined benefit plan.Contractual obligations(Dollars in millions) 	 	 	  	 	 	  	 	 	 total    ContraCtual payMent StreaM 	 	payMentS due in 2007 2008-09 2010-11 after 2011Long-term debt obligations 	 $16,086	$2,724	$3,662	$3,852	$5,848Capital (finance) lease obligations 	 363	83	148	93	39Operating lease obligations 	 5,345	1,302	2,006	1,182	855Purchase obligations 	1,844	841	737	173	93Other long-term liabilities: 	Minimum pension funding (mandated)* 	 2,625	563	1,055	1,007	— 	Executive compensation 	 994	60	129	141	664 	Long-term termination benefits 	 2,160	315	277	176	1,392 	Other 	 689	47	113	85	444Total  	 $30,106	$5,935	$8,127	$6,709	$9,335*		These	amounts	represent	future	pension	contributions	that	are	mandated	by	local	regulations	or	statute	for	retirees	receiving	pension	benefits.	They	are	all	associated	with	non-U.S.		pension	plans.	The	projected	payments	beyond	2011	are	not	currently	determinable.	See	note	V,	“Retirement-Related	Benefits,”	on	pages	100	to	111	for	additional	information	on	the	non-U.S.	plans’	investment	strategies	and	expected	contributions	and	for	information	regarding	the	company’s	unfunded	pension	liability	of	$14,543	million	at	December	31,	2006.Total contractual payments are reported in the table above excluding the effects of time value and therefore, may not equal the amounts reported in the company’s Consolidated Statement of Financial Position.  Purchase obligations include all commitments to purchase goods or services of either a fixed or minimum quantity that meet any of the following criteria: (1) they are noncancelable, (2) the company would incur a penalty if the agreement was canceled, or (3) the company must make specified minimum payments even if it does not take delivery of the contracted products or services (“take-or-pay”). If the obligation to purchase goods or services is noncancelable, the entire value of the contract is included in the table above. If the obligation is cancelable, but the company would incur a penalty if canceled, the dollar amount of the penalty is included as a purchase obligation. Contracted minimum amounts specified in take-or-pay contracts are also included in the table as they represent the portion of each contract that is a firm commitment. In the ordinary course of business, the company enters into contracts that specify that the company will purchase all or a portion of its requirements of a specific product, commodity or service from a supplier or vendor. These contracts are generally entered into in order to secure pricing or other negotiated terms. They do not specify fixed or minimum quantities to be purchased and, therefore, the company does not consider them to be purchase obligations. off-balance sheet arrangementsIn the ordinary course of business, the company entered into off-balance sheet arrangements as defined by the SEC Financial Reporting Release 67 (FRR-67), “Disclosure in Management’s Discussion and Analysis about Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements and Aggregate Contractual Obligations.” None of these off-balance sheet arrangements either has, or is reasonably likely to have, a material current or future effect on financial condition, changes in financial condition, revenues or expenses, results of operations, liquidity, capital expenditures or capital resources. See the table above for the company’s contractual obligations and note O, “Contingencies and Commitments,” on pages 91 and 92, for detailed information about the company’s guarantees, financial commitments and indemnification arrangements. The company does not have retained interests in assets transferred to unconsolidated entities (see note J, “Securitization of Receivables,” on page 81) or other material off-balance sheet interests or instruments.CritiCal aCCounting estiMatesthe application of gaap requires the company to make estimates and assumptions about future events that directly affect its reported financial condition and operating performance. The accounting estimates and assumptions discussed in this section are those that the company considers to be the most critical to its financial statements. An accounting estimate is considered critical if both (a) the nature of the estimates or assumptions is material due to the levels of subjectivity and judgment involved, and (b) the impact within a reasonable range of outcomes of the estimates and assumptions is material to the company’s financial condition or operating performance. The critical accounting estimates related to the company’s Global Financing business are described on page 53 in the Global Financing section. The company’s significant accounting policies are described in note A, “Significant Accounting Policies,” on pages 62 to 71.  A quantitative sensitivity analysis is provided where that information is reasonably available, can be reliably estimated and provides material information to investors. The amounts used to assess sensitivity (e.g., 1 percent, 5 percent, etc.) are included to allow users of the Annual Report to understand a general direction cause and effect of changes in the estimates and do not represent management’s predictions of variability.pension assumptionsThe measurement of the company’s benefit obligation to its employees and net periodic pension cost/(income) requires the use of certain assumptions, including, among others, estimates of discount rates and expected return on plan assets.   Changes in the discount rate assumptions will impact the service cost, (gain)/loss amortization and interest cost components of the net periodic pension cost/(income) calculation (see page 107 for information regarding the discount rate assumptions) and the projected benefit obligation (PBO). As presented on page 106, the company increased the discount rate assumption for the U.S. PPP by 25 basis points to 5.75 percent on December 31, 2006. This change will decrease pre-tax cost and expense recognized in 2007 by $90 million. If the discount rate assumption for the PPP decreased by 25 basis points on December 31, 2006, pre-tax cost and expense recognized in 2007 would have increased by $87 million. Changes in the discount rate assumptions will impact the PBO which, in turn, may impact the company’s funding decisions if the PBO exceeds plan assets. Each 25 basis point increase or decrease in the discount rate will cause a corresponding decrease or increase, respectively, in the PPP’s PBO of an estimated $1.2 billion based upon December 31, 2006 data. Page 104 presents the PPP’s PBO (after the increase in discount rate presented on page 106) and plan assets as of December 31, 2006. The expected long-term return on plan assets is used in calculating the net periodic pension (income)/cost. See page 107 for information regarding the expected long-term return on plan assets assumption. The differences between the actual return on plan assets and expected long-term return on plan assets are recognized over five years in the expected return on plan assets line in net periodic pension (income)/ cost and also as a component of actuarial gains/losses, which are recognized over the service lives of the employees in the plan, provided such amounts exceed thresholds which are based upon the obligation or the value of plan assets, as provided by accounting standards.  To the extent the outlook for long-term returns changes such that management changes its expected long-term return on plan assets assumption, each 50 basis point increase or decrease in the expected long-term return on PPP plan assets assumption will have an estimated increase or decrease, respectively, of $232 million on the following year’s pre-tax net periodic pension (income)/cost (based upon the PPP’s plan assets at December 31, 2006 and assuming no contributions are made in 2007). 	The company may voluntarily make contributions or be required, by law, to make contributions to its pension plans. Actual results that differ from the estimates may result in more or less future company funding into the pension plans than is planned by management. Impacts of these types of changes on the company’s pension plans in other countries worldwide will vary depending upon the status of each respective plan.Costs to Complete service ContractsThe company enters into numerous service contracts through its GTS and GBS businesses. During the contractual period, revenue, cost and profits may be impacted by estimates of the ultimate profitability of each contract, especially contracts for which the company uses the percentage-of-completion (POC) method of accounting. If at any time these estimates indicate the contract will be unprofitable for POC contracts, the entire estimated loss for the remainder of the contract is recorded immediately in cost. The company performs ongoing profitability analyses of its services contracts in order to determine whether the latest estimates require updating. Key factors reviewed by the company to estimate the future costs to complete each contract are future labor costs, future product costs and productivity efficiencies. Contract loss provisions recorded as a component of Other accrued expenses and liabilities are approximately $32 million and $70 million at December 31, 2006 and December 31, 2005, respectively.income taxesThe company is subject to income taxes in both the U.S. and numerous foreign jurisdictions. Significant judgments are required in determining the consolidated provision for income taxes. During the ordinary course of business, there are many transactions and calculations for which the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. As a result, the company recognizes tax liabilities based on estimates of whether additional taxes and interest will be due. These tax liabilities are recognized when, despite the company’s belief that its tax return positions are supportable, the company believes that certain positions are likely to be challenged and may not be fully sustained upon review by tax authorities. The company believes that its accruals for tax liabilities are adequate for all open audit years based on its assessment of many factors including past experience and interpretations of tax law. This assessment relies on estimates and assumptions 
Management Discussion ........................................................12 	Road	Map	............................................................................. 12 	Forward-Looking	and	Cautionary	Statements	..................... 13 	Management	Discussion	Snapshot	...................................... 14 	Description	of	Business	....................................................... 1522374141and may involve a series of complex judgments about future events. To the extent that the final tax outcome of these matters is different than the amounts recorded, such differences will impact income tax expense in the period in which such determination is made.  Significant judgment is also required in determining any valuation allowance recorded against deferred tax assets. In assessing the need for a valuation allowance, management considers all available evidence including past operating results, estimates of future taxable income and the feasibility of ongoing tax planning strategies. In the event that the company changes its determination as to the amount of deferred tax assets that can be realized, the company will adjust its valuation allowance with a corresponding impact to income tax expense in the period in which such determination is made.   To the extent that the provision for income taxes increases/decreases by 1 percent of Income from continuing operations before income taxes, consolidated Income from continuing operations would have declined/improved by $133 million in 2006.valuation of assets and reporting unitsThe application of business combination and impairment accounting requires the use of significant estimates and assumptions. The purchase method of accounting for business combinations requires the company estimate the fair value of assets acquired and liabilities assumed to properly allocate purchase price consideration between assets that are depreciated and amortized from goodwill. Impairment testing for assets, other than goodwill, requires the allocation of cash flows to those assets or group of assets and if required, an estimate of fair value for the assets or group of assets. Impairment testing for goodwill requires the company assign assets and liabilities to reporting units along with estimating future cash flows for those reporting units based on assumptions of future events. The company’s estimates are based upon assumptions believed to be reasonable, but which are inherently uncertain and unpredictable. When appropriate, the company engages independent third-party appraisal firms to assist in determining the fair values of assets and reporting units. These valuations, whether performed by the company or an independent third party, require the use of management’s assumptions, which would not reflect unanticipated events and circumstances that may occur.restructuring actionsThe company has executed, and may continue to execute, restructuring actions which require management to utilize significant estimates related to expenses for severance and other employee separation costs, realizable values of assets made redundant or obsolete, lease cancellation and other exit costs. If the actual amounts differ from the company’s estimates, the amount of restructuring charges could be materially impacted. See note R, “2005 Actions,” on pages 93 and 94 for a description of restructuring actions. loss ContingenciesThe company is currently involved in various claims and legal proceedings. Quarterly, the company reviews the status of each significant matter and assesses its potential financial exposure. If the potential loss from any claim or legal proceeding is considered probable and the amount can be reasonably estimated, the company accrues a liability for the estimated loss. Significant judgment is required in both the determination of probability and the determination as to whether an exposure is reasonably estimable. Because of uncertainties related to these matters, accruals are based only on the best information available at the time. As additional information becomes available, the company reassesses the potential liability related to its pending claims and litigation and may revise its estimates. Such revisions in the estimates of the potential liabilities could have a material impact on the company’s results of operations and financial position. CurrenCy rate FluCtuationsChanges in the relative values of non-u.s. currencies to the u.s. dollar affect the company’s results. At December 31, 2006, currency changes resulted in assets and liabilities denominated in local currencies being translated into more dollars than at year-end 2005. The company uses a variety of financial hedging instruments to limit specific currency risks related to financing transactions and other foreign currency-based transactions. Further discussion of currency and hedging appears in note L, “Derivatives and Hedging Transactions,” on pages 83 through 86. The company earned approximately 45 percent of its net income in currencies other than the U.S. dollar. The company also maintains hedging programs to limit the volatility of currency impacts on the company’s financial results. These hedging programs limit the impact of currency changes on the company’s financial results but do not eliminate them. In addition to the translation of earnings and the company’s hedging programs, the impact of currency changes also may affect the company’s pricing and sourcing actions. For example, the company may procure components and supplies in multiple functional currencies and sell products and services in other currencies. Therefore, it is impractical to quantify the impact of currency on these transactions and on consolidated net income. Generally, the company believes that extended periods of dollar weakness are positive for net income and extended periods of dollar strength are negative, although the precise impact is difficult to assess. For non-U.S. subsidiaries and branches that operate in U.S. dollars or whose economic environment is highly inflationary, translation adjustments are reflected in results of operations, as required by SFAS No. 52, “Foreign Currency Translation.” Generally, the company manages currency risk in these entities by linking prices and contracts to U.S. dollars and by entering into foreign currency hedge contracts.Market riskin the normal course of business, the financial position of the company is routinely subject to a variety of risks. In addition to the market risk associated with interest rate and currency movements on outstanding debt and non-U.S. dollar denominated assets and liabilities, other examples of risk include collectibility of accounts receivable and recoverability of residual values on leased assets. The company regularly assesses these risks and has established policies and business practices to protect against the adverse effects of these and other potential exposures. As a result, the company does not anticipate any material losses from these risks. The company’s debt, in support of the Global Financing business and the geographic breadth of the company’s operations, contains an element of market risk from changes in interest and currency rates. The company manages this risk, in part, through the use of a variety of financial instruments including derivatives, as explained in note L, “Derivatives and Hedging Transactions,” on pages 83 through 86.  To meet disclosure requirements, the company performs a sensitivity analysis to determine the effects that market risk exposures may have on the fair values of the company’s debt and other financial instruments.
   The financial instruments that are included in the sensitivity analysis comprise all of the company’s cash and cash equivalents, marketable securities, long-term non-lease receivables, investments, longterm and short-term debt and all derivative financial instruments. The company’s portfolio of derivative financial instruments generally includes interest rate swaps, foreign currency swaps, forward contracts and option contracts. To perform the sensitivity analysis, the company assesses the risk of loss in fair values from the effect of hypothetical changes in interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates on market-sensitive instruments. The market values for interest and foreign currency exchange risk are computed based on the present value of future cash flows as affected by the changes in rates that are attributable to the market risk being measured. The discount rates used for the present value computations were selected based on market interest and foreign currency exchange rates in effect at December 31, 2006 and 2005. The differences in this comparison are the hypothetical gains or losses associated with each type of risk. Information provided by the sensitivity analysis does not necessarily represent the actual changes in fair value that the company would incur under normal market conditions because, due to practical limitations, all variables other than the specific market risk factor are held constant. In addition, the results of the model are constrained by the fact that certain items are specifically excluded from the analysis, while the financial instruments relating to the financing or hedging of those items are included by definition. Excluded items include leased assets, forecasted foreign currency cash flows and the company’s net investment in foreign operations. As a consequence, reported changes in the values of some of the financial instruments impacting the results of the sensitivity analysis are not matched with the offsetting changes in the values of the items that those instruments are designed to finance or hedge. The results of the sensitivity analysis at December 31, 2006, and December 31, 2005, are as follows: interest rate riskAt December 31, 2006, a 10 percent decrease in the levels of interest rates, with all other variables held constant, would result in a decrease in the fair market value of the company’s financial instruments of $113 million as compared with an increase of $18 million at December 31, 2005. A 10 percent increase in the levels of interest rates with all other variables held constant would result in a increase in the fair value of the company’s financial instruments of $96 million as compared to a decrease of $8 million at December 31, 2005. Changes in the relative sensitivity of the fair value of the company’s financial instrument portfolio for these theoretical changes in the level of interest rates are primarily driven by changes in the company’s debt maturities, interest rate profile and amount. Foreign Currency exchange rate riskAt December 31, 2006, a 10 percent weaker U.S. dollar against foreign currencies, with all other variables held constant, would result in a decrease in the fair value of the company’s financial instruments of $348 million as compared with a decrease of $257 million at December 31, 2005. Conversely, a 10 percent stronger U.S. dollar against foreign currencies, with all other variables held constant, would result in an increase in the fair value of the company’s financial instruments of $330 million compared with an increase of $278 million at December 31, 2005. FinanCing riskseMployees anD relateD workForCe  	perCentage ChangeSfor the year ended deCeMBer 31:			2006 2005 2004 2006-05 2005-04IBM/wholly owned subsidiaries 	 355,766	329,373	329,001	8.0	0.1Less-than-wholly owned subsidiaries 	 10,720	12,377	19,051	(13.4)	(35.0)Complementary 	 28,063	24,595	21,225	14.1	15.9Management Discussion ........................................................12 		Road	Map	............................................................................. 12		Forward-Looking	and	Cautionary	Statements	..................... 13		Management	Discussion	Snapshot	...................................... 14		Description	of	Business	....................................................... 15223741see the “global Financing—Description of business” on page 49 for a discussion of the financing risks associated with the company’s Global Financing business and management’s actions to mitigate such risks while striving for consistently strong returns on Global Financing’s equity.	Employees	at	IBM	and	its	wholly	owned	subsidiaries	in	2006 increased	26,393	compared	with	2005.	Resources	increased	in	all geographies;	on	a	country-basis,	India	experienced	the	largest	growth, up	16,024	to	approximately	52,000	employees	at	year	end.	The	U.S. at	approximately	127,000	employees,	also	increased	modestly	versus	2005.	The	company	continues	to	invest	in	Global	Services	and	Software	through	a	combination	of	hiring	and	acquisitions.	IBM	also	continues	to	rebalance	its	workforce	globally	to	improve	the	company’s	competitiveness	in	the	marketplace,	as	well	as	to	withdraw	from	certain	businesses.	The	company’s	complementary	workforce	is	an	approximation	of	equivalent	full-time	employees	hired	under	temporary,	part-time	and	limited-term	employment	arrangements	to	meet	specific	business	needs	in	a	flexible	and	cost-effective	manner.Global FinancinG Description oF businessGlobal Financing is a business segment within ibM that is measured as if it were a standalone entity.	Accordingly,	the	information	presented	in	this	section	is	consistent	with	this	separate	company	view. 	The	mission	of	Global	Financing	is	to	generate	a	return	on	equity	and	to	facilitate	clients’	acquisition	of	primarily	IBM	hardware,	software	and	services.	Global	Financing	invests	in	financing	assets,	manages	the	associated	risks	and	leverages	with	debt,	all	with	the	objective	of	generating	consistently	strong	returns	on	equity.	The	primary	focus	on	IBM	products	and	IBM	clients	mitigates	the	risks	normally	associated	with	a	financing	company.	Global	Financing	has	the	benefit	of	both	a	deep	knowledge	of	its	client	base	and	a	clear	insight	into	the	products	that	are	being	leased.	This	combination	allows	Global	Financing	to	effectively	manage	two	of	the	major	risks	(credit	and	residual	value)	that	are	normally	associated	with	financing. 	Global	Financing	comprises	three	lines	of	business:	• Client	financing	provides	lease	and	loan	financing	to	end	users	and	internal	clients	for	terms	generally	between	two	and	seven	years.	Internal	financing	is	predominantly	in	support	of	Global	Services’		long-term	client	services	contracts.	Global	Financing	also	factors	a	selected	portion	of	the	company’s	accounts	receivable,	primarily	for		cash	management	purposes.	All	internal	financing	arrangements		are	at	arm’s-length	rates	and	are	based	upon	market	conditions.	• Commercial	financing	provides	primarily	short-term	inventory	and	accounts	receivable	financing	to	dealers	and	remarketers	of	IT	products.	• Remarketing	sells	and	leases	used	equipment	to	new	or	existing	clients	both	externally	and	internally.	This	equipment	is	primarily	sourced	from	the	conclusion	of	lease	transactions.	Externally-remarketed		equipment	revenue	represents	sales	or	leases	to	clients	and	resellers.	Internally-remarketed	equipment	revenue	primarily	represents	used	equipment	that	is	sold	or	leased	internally	to	the	Systems	and	Technology	Group	and	Global	Services	segments.	The	Systems	and	Technology	Group	may	also	sell	the	equipment	that	it	purchases	from	Global	Financing	to	external	clients.	In	addition	to	the	strength	of	the	economy	and	its	impact	on	corporate	IT	budgets,	key	drivers	of	Global	Financing’s	results	are	interest rates	and	originations.	Interest	rates	directly	impact	Global	Financing’s	business	by	increasing	or	decreasing	both	financing	revenue	and	the	associated	borrowing	costs.	Originations,	which	determine	the	asset	base	of	Global	Financing’s	annuity-like	business,	are	impacted	by	IBM’s	non-Global	Financing	sales	volumes	and	Global	Financing’s	participation	rates.	Participation	rates	are	the	propensity	of	IBM’s	clients	to	finance	their	purchases	through	Global	Financing	in	lieu	of	paying	IBM	up-front	cash	or	financing	through	a	third	party.	results oF operations(Dollars	in	millions)for the year ended deCeMBer 31:	2006 2005 2004External	revenue	$2,365	$2,401	$2,607Internal	revenue	1,527	1,506	1,287Total	revenue	3,892	3,907	3,894Cost		1,773	1,648	1,540Gross	profit	$2,119	$2,259	$2,354Gross	profit	margin	54.5%	57.8%	60.5Pre-tax	income	$1,455	$1,583	$1,458After-tax	income*	$  914	$1,032	$		915Return	on	equity*	29.5%	33.2%	28.6%%*	See	page	53	for	the	details	of	the	After-tax	income	and	the	Return	on	equity	calculations.	Total	Global	Financing	revenue	decreased	0.4	percent	in	2006	as	compared	to	2005,	driven	by	a	decrease	in	External	revenue.	External	revenue	decreased	1.5	percent	(2.0	percent	adjusted	for	currency)	primarily	driven	by	used	equipment	sales	of	$625	million	in	2006	versus	$681	million	in	2005,	a	decrease	of	8.3	percent.	Internal	revenue	increased	1.4	percent	driven	by	financing	revenue	of	$602	million	in	2006	versus	$544	million	in	2005,	an	increase	of	10.6	percent,	partially	offset	by	used	equipment	sales	of	$925	million	in	2006	versus	$962	million	in	2005,	a	decrease	of	3.8	percent.	The	increase	in	financing	revenue	was	due	to	higher	average	asset	balances	and	higher	asset	yields.	The	decrease	in	internal	used	equipment	sales	was	due	to	higher	prior-year	early	terminations	of	internal	leases	and	the	subsequent	sale	of	this	equipment	to	Global	Services,	partially	offset	by	higher	sales	to	the	Systems	and	Technology	Group. 	Total	Global	Financing	revenue	increased	0.3	percent	in	2005	as	compared	to	2004,	driven	by	Internal	revenue	growth.	External	revenue	decreased	7.9	percent	(8.6	percent	adjusted	for	currency)	primarily	driven	by	financing	revenue	of	$1,720	million	in	2005	versus	$1,899	million	in	2004,	a	decrease	of	9.4	percent,	due	to	lower	average	asset	balances	and	declining	asset	yields.	Internal	revenue	increased	17.0	percent	driven	by	used	equipment	sales	of	$962	million	in	2005	versus	$716	million	in	2004,	an	increase	of	34.4	percent,	partially	offset	by	financing	income	of	$544	million	in	2005	versus	$571	million	in	2004,	a	decrease	of	4.7	percent.	The	increase	in	internal	used	equipment	sales	was	due	to	higher	sales	to	the	Systems	and	Technology	Group,	as	well	as	higher	early	terminations	of	internal	leases	and	the	subsequent	sale	of	this	equipment	to	Global	Services.ManaGeMent Discussioninternational business Machines corporation anD subsiDiary co	Global	Financing	gross	profit	dollars	decreased	$140	million	or 6.2	percent	and	gross	profit	margin	declined	3.3	points	in	2006	versus 2005.	The	decrease	in	gross	profit	dollars	was	primarily	driven	by borrowing	costs	of	$813	million	in	2006	versus	$641	million	in	2005, an	increase	of	26.8	percent,	primarily	related	to	the	interest	rate	environment	during	the	year,	and	equipment	sales	gross	profit	of	$591	million	in	2006	versus	$637	million	in	2005,	a	decrease	of	7.2	percent	due	to	the	decrease	in	used	equipment	sales	discussed	previously.	This	was	partially	offset	by	the	increase	in	financing	revenue	also	discussed	above.	The	decrease	in	gross	profit	margin	was	driven	by	lower	financing	margins	due	to	higher	borrowing	costs	related	to	the	interest	rate	environment	during	the	year	and	a	decrease	in	equipment	sales	margins,	partially	offset	by	a	mix	change	away	from	lower	margin	remarketing	sales	towards	higher	margin	financing	income. 	Global	Financing	gross	profit	dollars	decreased	$95	million	or	4.0	percent	and	gross	profit	margin	declined	2.7	points	in	2005	versus	2004.	The	decrease	in	gross	profit	dollars	was	primarily	driven	by	the	decline	in	financing	revenue	discussed	above	and	borrowing	costs	of	$641	million	in	2005	versus	$608	million	in	2004,	an	increase	of	5.5	percent	related	to	the	interest	rate	environment	during	the	year,	partially	offset	by	equipment	sales	gross	profit	of	$637	million	in	2005	versus	$492	million	in	2004,	an	increase	of	29.4	percent	due	to	the	increase	in	used	equipment	sales	discussed	previously.	The	decrease	in	gross	profit	margin	was	driven	by	a	mix	change	towards	lower	margin	remarketing	sales	and	away	from	higher	margin	financing	income	and	lower	financing	margins	due	to	higher	borrowing	costs	related	to	the	interest	rate	environment	during	the	year,	partially	offset	by	an	improvement	in	equipment	sales	margins.	Global	Financing	pre-tax	income	decreased	8.1	percent	in	2006	versus	2005,	compared	to	an	increase	of	8.6	percent	in	2005	versus	2004.	The	decrease	in	2006	was	primarily	driven	by	the	decrease	in	gross	profit	of	$140	million.	The	increase	in	2005	versus	2004	was	driven	by	a	decrease	of	$140	million	in	bad	debt	expense	and	a	decrease	of	$78	million	in	SG&A	expense,	partially	offset	by	the	decrease	in	gross	profit	of	$95	million.	The	decrease	in	bad	debt	expense	in	2005	was	reflective	of	the	improved	general	economic	environment,	improved	credit	quality	of	the	portfolio	and	the	declining	size	of	the	receivables	portfolio.	(See	page	51	for	a	discussion	of	Global	Financing	Receivables	and	Allowances.)	The	decrease	in	return	on	equity from	2005	to	2006	was	primarily due	to	lower	earnings	and	the	increase	from	2004	to	2005	was	primarily	due	to	higher	earnings.Financial conDitionbalance sheet(Dollars	in	millions)at deCeMBer 31:	 	2006 2005Cash			$   879	$	1,292Net	investment	in	sales-type	leases		10,108	9,876Equipment	under	operating	leases: 	External	clients		2,264	1,847	Internal	clients(a)(b)		1,976	1,788Client	loans		9,267	8,486Total	client	financing	assets		23,615	21,997Commercial	financing	receivables		5,844	5,070Intercompany	financing	receivables(a)(b)		2,534	1,968Other	receivables		327	127Other	assets		746	711Total financing assets  	$33,945	$31,165Intercompany	payables(a)		$ 5,858	$	5,262Debt(c)		22,287	20,499Other	liabilities		2,590	2,348Total	financing	liabilities		30,735	28,109Total	financing	equity		3,211	3,056Total financing liabilities and equity  	$33,945	$31,165(a) Amounts	eliminated	for	purposes	of	IBM’s	consolidated	results	and	therefore	do	not	appear	on	page	57.	(b) These	assets,	along	with	all	other	financing	assets	in	this	table,	are	leveraged	using	Global	Financing	debt.(c) Global	Financing	debt	includes	debt	of	the	company	and	of	the	Global	Financing	units	that	support	the	Global	Financing	business.	sources and uses of Funds The	primary	use	of	funds	in	Global	Financing	is	to	originate	client	and	commercial	financing	assets.	Client	financing	assets	for	end	users	consist	primarily	of	IBM	hardware,	software	and	services,	but	also	include	non-IBM	equipment,	software	and	services	to	meet	clients’	total	solutions	requirements.	Client	financing	assets	are	primarily	
Management Discussion ........................................................12 	Road	Map	............................................................................. 12 	Forward-Looking	and	Cautionary	Statements	..................... 13 	Management	Discussion	Snapshot	...................................... 14 	Description	of	Business	....................................................... 15 	Year	in	22 	Prior	Year	in	37 	Discontinued	41	Other		Global	rreport of i consolidated sales	type,	direct	financing	and	operating	leases	for	equipment,	as	well	as	loans	for	hardware,	software	and	services	with	terms	generally	for	two	to	seven	years.	Global	Financing’s	client	loans	are	primarily	for	software	and	services,	and	are	unsecured.	These	loans	are	subjected	to	additional	credit	analysis	in	order	to	mitigate	the	associated	risk.	Unsecured	loan	agreements	include	credit	protective	language,	security	deposit	advances	and	dollar	limits	on	how	much	can	be	financed	in	order	to	minimize	credit	risk.	Client	financing	also	includes	internal	activity	as	described	on	page	49.	Commercial	financing	receivables	arise	primarily	from	inventory and	accounts	receivable	financing	for	dealers	and	remarketers	of	IBM and	non-IBM	products.	Payment	terms	for	inventory	financing	and accounts	receivable	financing	generally	range	from	30	to	90	days. These	short-term	receivables	are	primarily	unsecured	and	are	also	subject	to	additional	credit	actions	in	order	to	mitigate	the	associated	risk.	originations The	following	are	total	external	and	internal	financing	originations.	(Dollars	in	millions)for the year ended deCeMBer 31:	2006 2005 2004Client	financing: 	External	$13,087	$12,249	$12,433	Internal	1,214	1,167	1,185Commercial	financing	27,969	27,032	25,566Total	$42,270	$40,448	$39,184New	financing	originations	exceeded	cash	collections	for	both	client	and	commercial	financing	in	2006,	which	resulted	in	a	net	increase	in	financing	assets	from	December	31,	2005.	The	increase	in	originations	in	2006	versus	2005	was	due	to	improving	volumes	in	both	client	and	commercial	financing.	The	increase	from	2005	versus	2004	was	driven	by	an	improvement	in	commercial	financing	partially	offset	by	a	decline	in	client	financing.	Cash	generated	by	Global	Financing	in	2006	was	deployed	to	pay	intercompany	payables	and	dividends	to	IBM.Financing assets by sector The	following	are	the	percentages	of	external	financing	assets	by	industry	sector.	at deCeMBer 31:		2006 2005Financial	Services		36%	33%Business	Partners*		19	19Industrial		18	20Public		10	10Distribution		8	8Communications		6	6Other		3	4Total		100%	100%*		Business	Partners’	financing	assets	represent	a	portion	of	commercial	financing	inventory	and	accounts	receivable	financing	for	terms	generally	less	than	90	days.Global Financing receivables and allowancesThe	following	table	presents	external	financing	receivables,	excluding residual	values,	and	the	allowance	for	doubtful	accounts.	(Dollars	in	millions)at deCeMBer 31:		2006 2005Gross	financing	receivables		$24,926	$23,197Specific	allowance	for	doubtful	accounts		294	421Unallocated	allowance	for			doubtful	accounts		76	84Total	allowance	for	doubtful	accounts	 370	505Net	financing	receivables 	 $24,556	$22,692Allowance	for	doubtful	account	coverage		1.5%	2.2%roll-Forward of Financing receivables  allowance for Doubtful accounts(Dollars	in	millions) 	 	 	  	 	 	      additions/ (reduCtions)  	 	 	 allowanCe Bad deBt   Dec.	31,Jan. 1, 2006 used* expense other** 2006$505		$(154)	$(20)	$39	$370*		Represents	reserved	receivables,	net	of	recoveries,	that	were	disposed	of	during		the	period.	**	Primarily	represents	translation	adjustments.	The	percentage	of	financing	receivables	reserved	decreased	from	2.2	percent	at	December	31,	2005	to	1.5	percent	at	December	31,	2006	primarily	due	to	the	decrease	in	the	specific	allowance	for	doubtful	accounts.	Specific	reserves	decreased	30.2	percent	from	$421	million	at	December	31,	2005	to	$294	million	at	December	31,	2006	due	to	the	disposition	of	reserved	receivables	during	the	period	combined	with	lower	requirements	for	additional	specific	reserves.	This	lower	requirement	is	due	to	improving	economic	conditions,	as	well	as	portfolio	management	to	reduce	credit	risk.	Unallocated	reserves	decreased	9.5	percent	from	$84	million	at	December	31,	2005	to	$76	million	at	December	31,	2006	also	due	to	improved	economic	conditions	and	the	improved	credit	quality	of	the	portfolio.		Global	Financing’s	bad	debt	expense	was	a	reduction	of	$20	million	for	2006	and	a	reduction	of	$35	million	for	2005.	The	continued	reduction	was	primarily	attributable	to	the	improvement	in	economic	conditions	and	improved	credit	quality	of	the	portfolio	during	2006.residual Value Residual	value	is	a	risk	unique	to	the	financing	business	and	management	of	this	risk	is	dependent	upon	the	ability	to	accurately	project	future	equipment	values	at	lease	inception.	Global	Financing	has	insight	into	product	plans	and	cycles	for	the	IBM	products	under	lease.	Based	upon	this	product	information,	Global	Financing	continually	monitors	projections	of	future	equipment	values	and	compares	them	with	the	residual	values	reflected	in	the	portfolio.	See	note	A,	“Significant	Accounting	Policies,”	on	page	71	for	the	company’s	accounting	policy	for	residual	values.ManaGeMent Discussioninternational business Machines corporation anD subsiDiary counguaranteed residual Value(Dollars	in	millions)				total 	run out of 2006 BalanCe 	       2010 and 	  2005* 2006 2007 2008 2009 BeyondSales-type	leases	$			792	$   854	$221	$235	$274	$124Operating	leases	258	342	119	105	92	26Total unguaranteed residual value $	1,050	$ 1,196	$340	$340	$366	$150Related	original	amount	financed	$23,397	$23,225Percentage	4.5%	5.2%*	Restated	to	conform	with	2006	presentation.	Global	Financing	optimizes	the	recovery	of	residual	values	by	selling	assets	sourced	from	end	of	lease,	leasing	used	equipment	to	new clients,	or	extending	lease	arrangements	with	current	clients.	Sales	of equipment,	which	are	primarily	sourced	from	equipment	returned	at end	of	lease,	represented	39.8	percent	of	Global	Financing’s	revenue	in 2006	and	42.1	percent	in	2005.	The	decrease	was	due	to	declines	in	both	internal	and	external	used	equipment	sales.	The	gross	margin	on	these	sales	was	38.1	percent	and	38.7	percent	in	2006	and	2005,	respectively.		The	following	table	presents	the	recorded	amount	of	unguaranteed	residual	value	for	sales-type	and	operating	leases	at	December	31,	2005	and	2006.	In	addition,	the	table	below	presents	the	residual	value	as	a	percentage	of	the	related	original	amount	financed	and	a	run	out	of	when	the	unguaranteed	residual	value	assigned	to	equipment	on	leases	at	December	31,	2006	is	expected	to	be	returned	to	the	company.	In	addition	to	the	unguaranteed	residual	value	below,	on	a	limited	basis,	Global	Financing	will	obtain	guarantees	of	the	future	value	of	the	equipment	to	be	returned	at	end	of	lease.	These	third-party	guarantees	are	included	in	minimum	lease	payments	as	provided	for	by	accounting	standards	in	the	determination	of	lease	classifications	for	the	covered	equipment	and	provide	protection against	risk	of loss	arising	from declines	in	equipment	values	for	these	assets.	The	residual	value	guarantee	increases	the	minimum	lease	payments	that	are	utilized	in determining	the	classification	of	a	lease	as	a	sales-type	lease	or	an	operating	lease.	The	aggregate	asset	values	associated	with	the	guarantees	were	$794	million	and	$651	million	for	financing	transactions	originated	during	the	years	ended	December	31,	2006	and	2005,	respectively.	In	2006,	the	residual	value	guarantee	program	resulted	in	the	company	recognizing	approximately	$564	million	of	revenue	that	would	otherwise	have	been	recognized	in	future	periods	as	operating	lease	revenue.	If	the	company	had	chosen	not	to	participate	in	a	residual	value	program	in	2006	and	prior	years,	overall	revenue	would	not	have	been	materially	affected	due	to	the	relatively	constant	year-toyear	aggregate	asset	value	associated	with	the	residual	value	guarantees.	The	associated	aggregate	guaranteed	future	values	at	the	scheduled	end	of	lease	were	$38	million	and	$27	million	for	financing	transactions	originated	during	the	same	time	periods,	respectively.	The	cost	of	guarantees	was	$5	million	for	year	ended	December	31,	2006,	and	$4.3	million	for	year	ended	December	31,	2005.
Debtat deCeMBer 31:	 2006 2005Debt-to-equity	ratio		6.9x	6.7xGlobal	Financing	funds	its	operations	primarily	through	borrowings	using	a	debt-to-equity	ratio	objective	of	approximately	7	to	1.	The	Management Discussion ........................................................12 	Road	Map	............................................................................. 12 	Forward-Looking	and	Cautionary	Statements	..................... 13 	Management	Discussion	Snapshot	...................................... 14 	Description	of	Business	....................................................... 15 	Year	in	22 	Prior	Year	in	37 	Discontinued	41	Other		Global	rreport of i consolidated debt	is	used	to	fund	Global	Financing	assets	and	is	composed	of	intercompany	loans	and	external	debt.	The	terms	of	the	intercompany	loans	are	set	by	the	company	to	substantially	match	the	term	and	currency	underlying	the	financing	receivable.	The	intercompany	loans	are	based	on	arm’s-length	pricing.	Both	assets	and	debt	are	presented	in	the	Global	Financing	Balance	Sheet	on	page	50.	The	company’s	Global	Financing	business	provides	funding	predominantly	for	the	company’s	external	clients	but	also	provides	intercompany	financing	for	the	company	(internal),	as	described	in	the	“Description	of	Business”	on	page	49.	As	previously	stated,	the	company	measures	Global	Financing	as	if	it	were	a	standalone	entity	and	accordingly,	interest	expense	relating	to	debt	supporting	Global	Financing’s	external	client	and	internal	business	is	included	in	the	“Global	Financing	Results	of	Operations”	on	page	49	and	in	note	W,	“Segment	Information,”	on	pages	111	to	115.	In	the	company’s	Consolidated	Statement	of	Earnings	on	page	56,	however,	the	interest	expense	supporting	Global	Financing’s	internal	financing	to	the	company	is	reclassified	from	Cost	of	financing	to	Interest	expense.liquidity and capital resourcesGlobal	Financing	is	a	segment	of	the	company	and	as	such,	is	supported by	the	company’s	liquidity	position	and	access	to	capital	markets. Cash	generated	from	operations	in	2006	was	deployed	to	reduce intercompany	payables	and	pay	dividends	to	the	company	in	order	to maintain	an	appropriate	debt-to-equity	ratio.	return on equity(Dollars	in	millions)at deCeMBer 31: 	2006 2005Numerator:	Global	Financing	after	tax	income(a)*		$  914	$1,032Denominator:	Average	Global	Financing	equity(b)**		$3,097	$3,109Global	Financing	Return	on	Equity(a)/(b)		29.5%	33.2%*		Calculated	based	upon	an	estimated	tax	rate	principally	based	on	Global	Financing’s	geographic	mix	of	earnings	as	IBM’s	provision	for	income	taxes	is	determined	on	a	consolidated	basis.	**	Average	of	the	ending	equity	for	Global	Financing	for	the	last	five	quarters.critical accountinG estiMatesas discussed in the section, “critical accounting estimates,” on pages 45 to 47, the application of Gaap requires the company to make	estimates	and assumptions	about	future	events	that	directly	affect	its	reported	financial	condition	and	operating	performance.	The	accounting	estimates	and	assumptions	discussed	in	this	section	are	those	that	the	company	considers	to	be	the	most	critical	to	Global	Financing.	The	company’s	significant	accounting	policies	are	described	in	note	A,	“Significant	Accounting	Policies,”	on	pages	62	to	71.	Financing receivables reserves Global	Financing	reviews	its	financing	receivables	portfolio	at	least	quarterly	in	order	to	assess	collectibility.	A	description	of	the	methods	used	by	management	to	estimate	the	amount	of	uncollectible	receivables	is	included	on	page	70.	Factors	that	could	result	in	actual	receivable	losses	that	are	materially	different	from	the	estimated	reserve	include	sharp	changes	in	the	economy	or	a	significant	change	in	the	economic	health	of	a	particular	industry	segment	that	represents	a	concentration	in	Global	Financing’s	receivables	portfolio. 	To	the	extent	that	actual	collectibility	differs	from	management’s	estimates	by	5	percent,	Global	Financing	after-tax	income	would	be	higher	or	lower	by	an	estimated	$12	million	(using	2006	data),	depending	upon	whether	the	actual	collectibility	was	better	or	worse,	respectively,	than	the	estimates.residual Value Residual	value	represents	the	estimated	fair	value	of	equipment	under	lease	as	of	the	end	of	the	lease.	Residual	value	estimates	impact	the	determination	of	whether	a	lease	is	classified	as	operating	or	sales	type.	Global	Financing	estimates	the	future	fair	value	of	leased	equipment	by	using	historical	models,	analyzing	the	current	market	for	new	and	used	equipment	and	obtaining	forward-looking	product	information	such	as	marketing	plans	and	technological	innovations.	Residual	value	estimates	are	periodically	reviewed	and	“other than	temporary” declines	in	estimated	future	residual	values	are	recognized	upon identification.	Anticipated	increases	in	future	residual	values	are	not recognized	until	the	equipment	is	remarketed.	Factors	that	could	cause	actual	results	to	materially	differ	from	the	estimates	include	severe	changes	in	the	used-equipment	market	brought	on	by	unforeseen	changes	in	technology	innovations	and	any	resulting	changes	in	the	useful	lives	of	used	equipment.	To	the	extent	that	actual	residual	value	recovery	is	lower	than	management’s	estimates	by	5	percent,	Global	Financing’s	after-tax	income	would	be	lower	by	an	estimated	$19	million	(using	2006	data).	If	the	actual	residual	value	recovery	is	higher	than	management’s	estimates,	the	increase	in	after-tax	income	will	be	realized	at	the	end	of	lease	when	the	equipment	is	remarketed.Market risksee pages 47 and 48 for discussion of the company’s overall market risk.lookinG ForwarDGiven Global Financing’s primary mission of supporting ibM’s hardware, software and services businesses, originations for both client	and	commercial	financing	businesses	will	be	dependent	upon	the	overall	demand	for	IT	hardware,	software	and	services,	as	well	as	client	participation	rates.	As	a	result	of	the	company	divesting	its	Personal	Computing	business	to	Lenovo,	Global	Financing	is	supporting	Lenovo’s	personal	computer	business	through	an	exclusive,	five-year	agreement	covering	all	Global	Financing	lines	of	business	effective	since	May	1,	2005.	These	participations	with	Lenovo	are	external	revenue	to	Global	Financing.	Interest	rates	and	the	overall	economy	(including	currency	fluctuations)	will	have	an	effect	on	both	revenue	and	gross	profit.	The	company’s	interest	rate	risk	management	policy,	however,	combined	with	the	Global	Financing	funding	strategy	(see	page	52),	should	mitigate	gross	margin	erosion	due	to	changes	in	interest	rates.	The	company’s	policy	of	matching	asset	and	liability	positions	in	foreign	currencies	will	limit	the	impacts	of	currency	fluctuations.	The	economy	could	impact	the	credit	quality	of	the	Global	Financing	receivables	portfolio	and	therefore	the	level	of	provision	for	bad	debts.	Global	Financing	will	continue	to	apply	rigorous	credit	policies	in	both	the	origination	of	new	business	and	the	evaluation	of	the	existing	portfolio.	As	discussed	previously,	Global	Financing	has	historically	been	able	to	manage	residual	value	risk	both	through	insight	into	the	product	cycles,	as	well	as	through	its	remarketing	business.	Global	Financing	has	policies	in	place	to	manage	each	of	the	key	risks	involved	in	financing.	These	policies,	combined	with	product	and	client	knowledge,	should	allow	for	the	prudent	management	of	the	business	going	forward,	even	during	periods	of	uncertainty	with	respect	to	the	economy.
report oF ManaGeMentinternational business Machines corporation anD subsiDiary coManagement responsibility for Financial informationResponsibility	for	the	integrity	and	objectivity	of	the	financial	information	presented	in	this	Annual	Report	rests	with	IBM	management.	The accompanying	financial	statements	have	been	prepared	in	accordance with	accounting	principles	generally	accepted	in	the	United	States	of America,	applying	certain	estimates	and	judgments	as	required.		IBM	maintains	an	effective	internal	control	structure.	It	consists,	in	part,	of	organizational	arrangements	with	clearly	defined	lines	of	responsibility	and	delegation	of	authority,	and	comprehensive	systems	and	control	procedures.	An	important	element	of	the	control	environment	is	an	ongoing	internal	audit	program.	Our	system	also	contains	self-monitoring	mechanisms,	and	actions	are	taken	to	correct	deficiencies	as	they	are	identified.	To	assure	the	effective	administration	of	internal	controls,	we	carefully	select	and	train	our	employees,	develop	and	disseminate	written	policies	and	procedures,	provide	appropriate	communication	channels	and	foster	an	environment	conducive	to	the	effective	functioning	of	controls.	We	believe	that	it	is	essential	for	the	company	to	conduct	its	business	affairs	in	accordance	with	the	highest	ethical	standards,	as	set	forth	in	the	IBM	Business	Conduct	Guidelines.	These	guidelines,	translated	into	numerous	languages,	are	distributed	to	employees	throughout	the	world,	and	reemphasized	through	internal	programs	to	assure	that	they	are	understood	and	followed.		PricewaterhouseCoopers	LLP,	an	independent	registered	public	accounting	firm,	is	retained	to	audit	IBM’s	Consolidated	Financial	Statements	and	management’s	assessment	of	the	effectiveness	of	the	internal	control	over	financial	reporting.	Its	accompanying	report	is	based	on	audits	conducted	in	accordance	with	the	standards	of	the	Public	Company	Accounting	Oversight	Board	(United	States).		The	Audit	Committee	of	the	Board	of	Directors	is	composed	solely	of	independent,	non-management	directors,	and	is	responsible	for	recommending	to	the	Board	the	independent	registered	public	accounting	firm	to	be	retained	for	the	coming	year,	subject	to	stockholder	ratification.	The	Audit	Committee	meets	periodically	and	privately	with	the	independent	registered	public	accounting	firm,	with	the	company’s	internal	auditors,	as	well	as	with	IBM	management,	to	review	accounting,	auditing,	internal	control	structure	and	financial	reporting	matters.	Management’s report on internal  control over Financial reportingManagement	is	responsible	for	establishing	and	maintaining	adequate	internal	control	over	financial	reporting	of	the	company.	Internal	control	over	financial	reporting	is	a	process	designed	to	provide	reasonable	assurance	regarding	the	reliability	of	financial	reporting	and	the	preparation	of	financial	statements	for	external	purposes	in	accordance	with	accounting	principles	generally	accepted	in	the	United	States	of	America.	The	company’s	internal	control over	financial reporting	includes those	policies	and	procedures	that	(i)	pertain	to	the	maintenance	of records	that,	in	reasonable	detail,	accurately	and	fairly	reflect	the transactions	and	dispositions	of	the	assets	of	the	company;	(ii)	provide	reasonable	assurance	that	transactions	are	recorded	as	necessary	to	permit	preparation	of	financial	statements	in	accordance	with	accounting	principles	generally	accepted	in	the	United	States	of	America,	and	that	receipts	and	expenditures	of	the	company	are	being	made	only	in	accordance	with	authorizations	of	management	and	directors	of	the	company;	and	(iii)	provide	reasonable	assurance	regarding	prevention	or	timely	detection	of	unauthorized	acquisition,	use,	or	disposition	of	the	company’s	assets	that	could	have	a	material	effect	on	the	financial	statements.		Because	of	its	inherent	limitations,	internal	control	over	financial	reporting	may	not	prevent	or	detect	misstatements.	Also,	projections	of	any	evaluation	of	effectiveness	to	future	periods	are	subject	to	the	risk	that	controls	may	become	inadequate	because	of	changes	in	conditions,	or	that	the	degree	of	compliance	with	the	policies	or	procedures	may	deteriorate.	Management	conducted	an	evaluation	of	the	effectiveness	of	internal	control	over	financial	reporting	based	on	the	framework	in	Internal	Control—Integrated	Framework	issued	by	the	Committee	of	Sponsoring	Organizations	of	the	Treadway	Commission	(COSO).	Based	on	this	evaluation,	management	concluded	that	the	company’s	internal	control	over	financial	reporting	was	effective	as	of	December	31,	2006.	Management’s	assessment	of	the	effectiveness	of	the	company’s	internal	control	over	financial	reporting	as	of	December	31,	2006	has	been	audited	by	PricewaterhouseCoopers	LLP,	an	independent	registered	public	accounting	firm,	as	stated	in	their	report	which	is	included	herein.saMuel j. palMisanoChairman	of	the	Board,President	and	Chief	Executive	OfficerFebruary	27,	2007Mark louGhriDGeSenior	Vice	President,Chief	Financial	OfficerFebruary	27,	2007report oF inDepenDent reGistereD public accountinG FirMto the stockholders and board of Directors of international business Machines corporation:We	have	completed	integrated	audits	of	International	Business	Machines	Corporation’s	Consolidated	Financial	Statements	and	of	its	internal	control	over	financial	reporting	as	of	December	31,	2006	in	accordance	with	the	standards	of	the	Public	Company	Accounting	Oversight	Board	(United	States).	Our	opinions,	based	on	our	audits	and	the	report	of	other	auditors,	are	presented	below.consolidated Financial statementsIn	our	opinion,	based	on	our	audits	and	the	report	of	other	auditors,	the	accompanying	Consolidated	Financial	Statements	appearing	on	pages	56	through	115	present	fairly,	in	all	material	respects,	the	financial	position	of	International	Business	Machines	Corporation	and	its	subsidiary	companies	at	December	31,	2006	and	2005,	and	the	results	of	their	operations	and	their	cash	flows	for	each	of	the	three	years	in	the	period	ended	December	31,	2006,	in	conformity	with	accounting	principles	generally	accepted	in	the	United	States	of	America.	These	financial	statements	are	the	responsibility	of	the	company’s	management.	Our	responsibility	is	to	express	an	opinion	on	these	financial	statements	based	on	our	audits.	We	did	not	audit	the	financial	statements	of	the	company’s	Business	Consulting	Services	Reporting	Unit	(which	includes	the	consulting	practice	acquired	from	us)	for	the	year	ended	December	31,	2004,	which	statements	reflect	total	revenues	of	14.3	percent	of	the	related	consolidated	totals	in	the	year	ended	December	31,	2004.	Those	statements	were	audited	by	other	auditors	whose	report	thereon	has	been	furnished	to	us,	and	our	opinion	expressed	herein,	insofar	as	it	relates	to	the	amounts	included	for	the	company’s	Business	Consulting	Services	Reporting	Unit,	is	based	solely	on	the	report	of	the	other	auditors.	We	conducted	our	audits	of	these	statements	in	accordance	with	the	standards	of	the	Public	Company	Accounting	Oversight	Board	(United	States).	Those	standards	require	that	we	plan	and	perform	the	audit	to	obtain	reasonable	assurance	about	whether	the	financial	statements	are	free	of	material	misstatement.	An	audit	of	financial	statements	includes	examining,	on	a	test	basis,	evidence	supporting	the	amounts	and	disclosures	in	the	financial	statements,	assessing	the	accounting	principles	used	and	significant	estimates	made	by	management,	and	evaluating	the	overall	financial	statement	presentation.	We	believe	that	our	audits	and	the	report	of	other	auditors	provide	a	reasonable	basis	for	our	opinion. 	As	discussed	in	note	A	to	the	Consolidated	Financial	Statements,	the	company	adopted	the	provisions	of	Statement	of	Financial	Accounting	Standards	No.	158,	“Employers’	Accounting	for	Defined	Benefit	Pension	and	Other	Postretirement	Plans,”	as	of	December	31,	2006.internal control over Financial reporting Also,	in	our	opinion,	management’s	assessment,	included	in	the	accompanying	Management’s	Report	on	Internal	Control	Over	Financial	Reporting	that	the	company	maintained	effective	internal	control	over	financial	reporting	as	of	December	31,	2006	based	on	criteria	established	in	Internal	Control-Integrated	Framework	issued	international business Machines corporation anD subsiDiary coMpaniesby	the	Committee	of	Sponsoring	Organizations	of	the	Treadway	Commission	(COSO),	is	fairly	stated,	in	all	material	respects,	based	on	those	criteria.	Furthermore,	in	our	opinion,	the	company	maintained,	in	all	material	respects,	effective	internal	control	over	financial	reporting	as	of	December	31,	2006,	based	on	criteria	established	in	Internal	Control-Integrated	Framework	issued	by	the	COSO.	The	company’s	management	is	responsible	for	maintaining	effective	internal	control	over	financial	reporting	and	for	its	assessment	of	the	effectiveness	of	internal	control	over	financial	reporting.	Our	responsibility	is	to	express	opinions	on	management’s	assessment	and	on	the	effectiveness	of	the	company’s	internal	control	over	financial	reporting	based	on	our	audit.	We	conducted	our	audit	of	internal	control	over	financial	reporting	in	accordance	with	the	standards	of	the	Public	Company	Accounting	Oversight	Board	(United	States).	Those	standards	require	that	we	plan	and	perform	the	audit	to	obtain	reasonable	assurance	about	whether	effective	internal	control	over	financial	reporting	was	maintained	in	all	material	respects.	An	audit	of	internal	control	over	financial	reporting	includes	obtaining	an	understanding	of	internal	control	over	financial	reporting,	evaluating	management’s	assessment,	testing	and	evaluating	the	design	and	operating	effectiveness	of	internal	control,	and	performing	such	other	procedures	as	we	consider	necessary	in	the	circumstances.	We	believe	that	our	audit	provides	a	reasonable	basis	for	our	opinions.	A	company’s	internal	control	over	financial	reporting	is	a	process	designed	to	provide	reasonable	assurance	regarding	the	reliability	of	financial	reporting	and	the	preparation	of	financial	statements	for	external	purposes	in	accordance	with	generally	accepted	accounting	principles.	A	company’s	internal	control	over	financial	reporting	includes	those	policies	and	procedures	that	(i)	pertain	to	the	maintenance	of	records	that,	in	reasonable	detail,	accurately	and	fairly	reflect	the	transactions	and	dispositions	of	the	assets	of	the	company;	(ii)	provide	reasonable	assurance	that	transactions	are	recorded	as	necessary	to	permit	preparation	of	financial	statements	in	accordance	with	generally	accepted	accounting	principles,	and	that	receipts	and	expenditures	of	the	company	are	being	made	only	in	accordance	with	authorizations	of	management	and	directors	of	the	company;	and	(iii)	provide	reasonable	assurance	regarding	prevention	or	timely	detection	of	unauthorized	acquisition,	use,	or	disposition	of	the	company’s	assets	that	could	have	a	material	effect	on	the	financial	statements. 	Because	of	its	inherent	limitations,	internal	control	over	financial	reporting	may	not	prevent	or	detect	misstatements.	Also,	projections	of	any	evaluation	of	effectiveness	to	future	periods	are	subject	to	the	risk	that	controls	may	become	inadequate	because	of	changes	in	conditions,	or	that	the	degree	of	compliance	with	the	policies	or	procedures	may	deteriorate.pricewaterhousecoopers llpNew	York,	New	YorkFebruary	27,	2007






notes to consoliDateD Financial stateMents
international business Machines corporation anD subsiDiary coMpaniesa. siGniFicant accountinG policiesbasis oF presentationthe international business Machines corporation (ibM or the company) made changes to its management system effective as of	the	first	quarter	of	2006.	In	accordance	with	Statement	of	Financial	Accounting	Standards	(SFAS)	No.	131,	“Disclosures	about	Segments	of	an	Enterprise	and	Related	Information,”	these	changes	impacted	the	company’s	reportable	segments	and	resulted	in	the	reclassification	of	certain	revenue	and	cost	within	its	Consolidated	Statement	of	Earnings	from	previously	reported	information.	See	note	W,	“Segment	Information,”	on	page	111	for	additional	information	on	the	changes	in	reportable	segments.	These	changes	did	not	impact	IBM’s	total	revenue,	cost,	expense,	net	income,	earnings	per	share,	Consolidated	Statement	of	Financial	Position	or	Consolidated	Statement	of	Cash	Flows	from	previously	reported	information.	The	company	filed	a	Form	8-K	with	the	Securities	and	Exchange	Commission	(SEC)	on	June	13,	2006	to	reclassify	its	historical	financial	statements	and	related	footnotes	to	reflect	these	management	system	changes.	The	Consolidated	Financial	Statements	and	accompanying	notes,	as	applicable,	reflect	these	changes	for	all	periods	presented.		On	December	31,	2002,	the	company	sold	its	hard	disk	drive	(HDD)	business	to	Hitachi,	Ltd.	(Hitachi).	The	HDD	business	was	part	of	the	company’s	Systems	and	Technology	Group	reportable	segment.	The	HDD	business	was	accounted	for	as	a	discontinued	operation	under	accounting	principles	generally	accepted	in	the	United	States	of	America	(GAAP)	and	therefore,	the	HDD	results	of	operations	and	cash	flows	have	been	removed	from	the	company’s	results	of	continuing	operations	and	cash	flows	for	all	periods	presented	in	this	document.		For	2006,	Income	from	discontinued	operations,	net	of	tax,	is	related	to	tax	benefits	from	tax	audit	settlements.	For	the	years	2005	and	2004,	the	Loss	from	discontinued	operations,	net	of	tax,	is	primarily	additional	costs	associated	with	parts	warranty	as	agreed	upon	by	the	company	and	Hitachi.	consolidated statements ......................................................... 56 notes .....................................................................................62 A-G	......................................................................................... 62 	A.	Significant	Accounting	Policies	....................................... 62 	B.	Accounting	Changes........................................................ 71 	C.	Acquisitions/Divestitures	................................................. 73 	D.	Financial	Instruments	(excluding	derivatives)	................ 78	E.	Inventories	....................................................................... 	F.	Financing	Receivables	...................................................... 	G.	Plant,	Rental	Machines	and	Other	Property	...................H-M	......................................................................................... N-S	..........................................................................................T-X	..........................................................................................principles oF consoliDationthe consolidated Financial statements include the accounts of ibM and its controlled subsidiaries, which are generally majority owned.	The	accounts	of	variable	interest	entities	(VIEs)	as	defined	by	the	Financial	Accounting	Standards	Board	(FASB)	Interpretation	No.	46(R)	(FIN	46(R)),	are	included	in	the	Consolidated	Financial	Statements,	if	required.	Investments	in	business	entities	in	which	the	company	does	not	have	control,	but	has	the	ability	to	exercise	significant	influence	over	operating	and	financial	policies,	are	accounted	for	using	the	equity	method	and	the	company’s	proportionate	share	of	income	or	loss	is	recorded	in	Other	(income)	and	expense.	The	accounting	policy	for	other	investments	in	equity	securities	is	described	on	page	70	within	“Marketable	Securities.”	Equity	investments	in	non-publicly	traded	entities	are	primarily	accounted	for	using	the	cost	method.	Intercompany	transactions	and	accounts	have	been	eliminated.use oF estiMatesthe preparation of consolidated Financial statements in conformity with Gaap requires management to make estimates and assumptions that	affect	the	amounts	of	assets,	liabilities,	revenue,	costs,	expenses	and	gains	and	losses	not	affecting	retained	earnings	that	are	reported	in	the	Consolidated	Financial	Statements	and	accompanying	disclosures,	including	the	disclosure	of	contingent	assets	and	liabilities.	These	estimates	are	based	on	management’s	best	knowledge	of	current	events,	historical	experience,	actions	that	the	company	may	undertake	in	the	future	and	on	various	other	assumptions	that	are	believed	to	be	reasonable	under	the	circumstances.	As	a	result,	actual	results	may	be	different	from	these	estimates.	See	pages	45	to	47	and	page	53	for	a	discussion	of	the	company’s	critical	accounting	estimates.reVenuethe company recognizes revenue when it is realized or realizable and earned.	The	company	considers	revenue	realized	or	realizable	and	earned	when	it	has	persuasive	evidence	of	an	arrangement,	delivery	has	occurred,	the	sales	price	is	fixed	or	determinable	and	collectibility	is	reasonably	assured.	Delivery	does	not	occur	until	products	have	been	shipped	or	services	have	been	provided	to	the	client,	risk	of	loss	has	transferred	to	the	client,	and	either	client	acceptance	has	been	obtained,	client	acceptance	provisions	have	lapsed,	or	the	company	has	objective	evidence	that	the	criteria	specified	in	the	client	acceptance	provisions	have	been	satisfied.	The	sales	price	is	not	considered	to	be	fixed	or	determinable	until	all	contingencies	related	to	the	sale	have	been	resolved.	The	company	recognizes	revenue	on	sales	to	solution	providers,	resellers	and	distributors	(herein	referred	to	as	“resellers”)	when	the	reseller	has	economic	substance	apart	from	the	company,	credit	risk,	title	and	risk	of	loss	to	the	inventory,	the	fee	to	the	company	is	not	contingent	upon	resale	or	payment	by	the	end	user,	the	company	has	no	further	obligations	related	to	bringing	about	resale	or	delivery	and	all	other	revenue	recognition	criteria	have	been	met.notes to consoliDateD Financial stateMents	The	company	reduces	revenue	for	estimated	client	returns,	stock	rotation,	price	protection,	rebates	and	other	similar	allowances.	(See	Schedule	II,	“Valuation	and	Qualifying	Accounts	and	Reserves”	included	in	the	company’s	Annual	Report	on	Form	10-K).	Revenue	is	recognized	only	if	these	estimates	can	be	reliably	determined.	The	company	bases	its	estimates	on	historical	results	taking	into	consideration	the	type	of	client,	the	type	of	transaction	and	the	specifics	of	each	arrangement.	Payments	made	under	cooperative	marketing	programs	are	recognized	as	an	expense	only	if	the	company	receives	from	the	client	an	identifiable	benefit	sufficiently	separable	from	the	product	sale	whose	fair	value	can	be	reasonably	estimated.	If	the	company	does	not	receive	an	identifiable	benefit	sufficiently	separable	from	the	product	sale	whose	fair	value	can	be	reasonably	estimated,	such	payments	are	recorded	as	a	reduction	of	revenue.	Revenue	from	sales	of	third-party	vendor	products	or	services	is	recorded	net	of	costs	when	the	company	is	acting	as	an	agent	between	the	client	and	vendor	and	gross	when	the	company	is	a	principal	to	the	transaction.	Several	factors	are	considered	to	determine	whether	the	company	is	an	agent	or	principal,	most	notably	whether	the	company	is	the	primary	obligor	to	the	client,	has	inventory	risk	or	adds	meaningful	value	to	the	vendor’s	product	or	service.	Consideration	is	also	given	to	whether	the	company	was	involved	in	the	selection	of	the	vendor’s	product	or	service,	has	latitude	in	establishing	the	sales	price	or	has	credit	risk.	The	company	reports	revenue	net	of	any	revenue-based	taxes	assessed	by	governmental	authorities	that	are	imposed	on	and	concurrent	with	specific	revenue-producing	transactions.	In	addition	to	the	aforementioned	general	policies,	the	following	are	the	specific	revenue	recognition	policies	for	multiple-element	arrangements	and	for	each	major	category	of	revenue.Multiple-element arrangementsThe	company	enters	into	multiple-element	revenue	arrangements,	which	may	include	any	combination	of	services,	software,	hardware	and/or	financing.	To	the	extent	that	a	deliverable	in	a	multiple-element	arrangement	is	subject	to	specific	guidance	(like	leased	hardware	that	is	subject	to	SFAS	No.	13,	“Accounting	for	Leases,”	or	software	that	is	subject	to	the	American	Institute	of	Certified	Public	Accountants	(AICPA)	Statement	of	Position	(SOP)	No.	97-2,	“Software	Revenue	Recognition,”	see	“Software”	on	page	64)	on	whether	and/or	how	to	separate	multiple	deliverable	arrangements	into	separate	units	of	accounting	(separability)	and	how	to	allocate	the	arrangement	consideration	among	those	separate	units	of	accounting	(allocation),	that	deliverable	is	accounted	for	in	accordance	with	such	specific	guidance.	For	all	other	deliverables	in	multiple-element	arrangements,	the	guidance	below	is	applied	for	separability	and	allocation.	A	multiple-element	arrangement	is	separated	into	more	than	one	unit	of	accounting	if	all	of	the	following	criteria	are	met:• The	delivered	item(s)	has	value	to	the	client	on	a	stand-alone	basis;	• There	is	objective	and	reliable	evidence	of	the	fair	value	of	the		undelivered	item(s);	and	international business Machines corporation anD subsiDiary coMpanies• If	the	arrangement	includes	a	general	right	of	return	relative	to	the		delivered	item(s),	delivery	or	performance	of	the	undelivered	item(s)	is		considered	probable	and	substantially	in	the	control	of	the	company.	If	these	criteria	are	not	met,	the	arrangement	is	accounted	for	as	one	unit	of	accounting	which	would	result	in	revenue	being	recognized	on	a	straight-line	basis	or	being	deferred	until	the	earlier	of	when	such	criteria	are	met	or	when	the	last	undelivered	element	is	delivered.	If	these	criteria	are	met	for	each	element	and	there	is	objective	and	reliable	evidence	of	fair	value	for	all	units	of	accounting	in	an	arrangement,	the	arrangement	consideration	is	allocated	to	the	separate	units	of	accounting	based	on	each	unit’s	relative	fair	value.	There	may	be	cases,	however,	in	which	there	is	objective	and	reliable	evidence	of	fair	value	of	the	undelivered	item(s)	but	no	such	evidence	for	the	delivered	item(s).	In	those	cases,	the	residual	method	is	used	to	allocate	the	arrangement	consideration.	Under	the	residual	method,	the	amount	of	consideration	allocated	to	the	delivered	item(s)	equals	the	total	arrangement	consideration	less	the	aggregate	fair	value	of	the	undelivered	item(s).	The	revenue	policies	described	below	are	then	applied	to	each	unit	of	accounting,	as	applicable.	If	the	allocation	of	consideration	in	a	profitable	arrangement	results	in	a	loss	on	an	element,	that	loss	is	recognized	at	the	earlier	of	(a)	delivery	of	that	element,	(b)	when	the	first	dollar	of	revenue	is	recognized	on	that	element,	or	(c)	when	there	are	no	remaining	profitable	elements	in	the	arrangement	to	be	delivered.servicesThe	company’s	primary	services	offerings	include	information	technology	(IT)	datacenter	and	business	process	outsourcing,	application	management	services,	technology	infrastructure	and	system	maintenance,	Web	hosting,	and	the	design	and	development	of	complex	IT	systems	to	a	client’s	specifications	(Design	and	Build).	These	services	are	provided	on	a	time-and-material	basis,	as	a	fixed-price	contract	or	as	a	fixed-price	per	measure	of	output	contract	and	the	contract	terms	range	from	less	than	one	year	to	over	10	years.	Revenue	from	IT	datacenter	and	business	process	outsourcing	contracts	is	recognized	in	the	period	the	services	are	provided	using	either	an	objective	measure	of	output	or	a	straight-line	basis	over	the	term	of	the	contract.	Under	the	output	method,	the	amount	of	revenue	recognized	is	based	on	the	services	delivered	in	the	period.	Revenue	from	application	management	services,	technology	infrastructure	and	system	maintenance	and	Web	hosting	contracts	is	recognized	on	a	straight-line	basis	over	the	terms	of	the	contracts.	Revenue	from	time-and-material	contracts	is	recognized	as	labor	hours	are	delivered	and	direct	expenses	are	incurred.	Revenue	related	to	extended	warranty	and	product	maintenance	contracts	is	recognized	on	a	straight-line	basis	over	the	delivery	period.notes to consoliDateD Financial stateMentsinternational business Machines corporation anD subsiDiary coMpanies	Revenue	from	fixed-price	Design	and	Build	contracts	is	recognized	in	accordance	with	SOP	No.	81-1,	“Accounting	for	Performance	of	Construction-Type	and	Certain	Production-Type	Contracts,”	under	the	percentage-of-completion	(POC)	method.	Under	the	POC	method,	revenue	is	recognized	based	on	the	costs	incurred	to	date	as	a	percentage	of	the	total	estimated	costs	to	fulfill	the	contract.	If	circumstances	arise	that	change	the	original	estimates	of	revenues,	costs,	or	extent	of	progress	toward	completion,	revisions	to	the	estimates	are	made.	These	revisions	may	result	in	increases	or	decreases	in	estimated	revenues	or	costs,	and	such	revisions	are	reflected	in	income	in	the	period	in	which	the	circumstances	that	give	rise	to	the	revision	become	known	by	management.	While	the	company	uses	the	POC	method	as	its	basic	accounting	policy	under	SOP	81-1,	the	company	uses	the	completed-contract	method	if	reasonable	estimates	for	a	contract	or	group	of	contracts	cannot	be	developed. 	The	company	performs	ongoing	profitability	analyses	of	its	services	contracts	accounted	for	under	the	POC	method	in	order	to	determine	whether	the	latest	estimates	of	revenue,	costs	and	profits	require	updating.	If	at	any	time	these	estimates	indicate	that	the	contract	will	be	unprofitable,	the	entire	estimated	loss	for	the	remainder	of	the	contract	is	recorded	immediately.	For	non-POC	services	contracts,	losses	are	recorded	as	incurred.	In	some	of	the	company’s	services	contracts,	the	company	bills	the	client	prior	to	recognizing	revenue	from	performing	the	services.	Deferred	income	of	$5.0	billion	and	$4.3	billion	at	December	31,	2006	and	2005,	respectively,	is	included	in	the	Consolidated	Statement	of	Financial	Position.	In	other	services	contracts,	the	company	performs	the	services	prior	to	billing	the	client.	Unbilled	accounts	receivable	of	$1.8	billion	and	$1.7	billion	at	December	31,	2006	and	2005,	respectively,	are	included	in	Notes	and	accounts	receivabletrade	in	the	Consolidated	Statement	of	Financial	Position.	Billings	usually	occur	in	the	month	after	the	company	performs	the	services	or	in	accordance	with	specific	contractual	provisions.	Unbilled	receivables	are	expected	to	be	billed	and	collected	within	four	months,	rarely	exceeding	nine	months.consolidated statements ......................................................... 56 notes .....................................................................................62 A-G	......................................................................................... 62 	A.	Significant	Accounting	Policies	....................................... 62 	B.	Accounting	Changes........................................................ 71 	C.	Acquisitions/Divestitures	................................................. 73 	D.	Financial	Instruments	(excluding	derivatives)	................ 78	E.	Inventories	....................................................................... 	F.	Financing	Receivables	...................................................... 	G.	Plant,	Rental	Machines	and	Other	Property	...................H-M	......................................................................................... N-S	..........................................................................................T-X	..........................................................................................hardwareRevenue	from	hardware	sales	and	sales-type	leases	is	recognized	when	risk	of	loss	has	transferred	to	the	client	and	there	are	no	unfulfilled	company	obligations	that	affect	the	client’s	final	acceptance	of	the	arrangement.	Any	cost	of	standard	warranties	and	remaining	obligations	that	are	inconsequential	or	perfunctory	are	accrued	when	the	corresponding	revenue	is	recognized.	Revenue	from	rentals	and	operating	leases	is	recognized	on	a	straight-line	basis	over	the	term	of	the	rental	or	lease.softwareRevenue	from	perpetual	(one-time	charge)	license	software	is	recognized	at	the	inception	of	the	license	term	if	all	revenue	recognition	criteria	have	been	met.	Revenue	from	term	(recurring	license	charge)	license	software	is	recognized	on	a	subscription	basis	over	the	period	that	the	client	is	entitled	to	use	the	license.	Revenue	from	maintenance,	unspecified	upgrades	on	a	when-and-if-available	basis	and	technical	support	is	recognized	over	the	period	such	items	are	delivered.	In	multiple-element	revenue	arrangements	that	include	software	that	is	more	than	incidental	to	the	products	or	services	as	a	whole	(software	multiple-element	arrangements),	software	and	software-related	elements	are	accounted	for	in	accordance	with	the	following	policies.	Software-related	elements	include	software	products	and	services,	as	well	as	any	non-software	deliverable	for	which	a	software	deliverable	is	essential	to	its	functionality.	A	software	multiple-element	arrangement	is	separated	into	more	than	one	unit	of	accounting	if	all	of	the	following	criteria	are	met:• The	functionality	of	the	delivered	element(s)	is	not	dependent	on	the		undelivered	element(s);• There	is	vendor-specific	objective	evidence	(VSOE)	of	fair	value	of	the	undelivered	element(s).	VSOE	of	fair	value	is	based	on	the	price	charged	when	the	deliverable	is	sold	separately	by	the	company	on	a	regular	basis	and	not	as	part	of	the	multiple-element	arrangement;	and	• Delivery	of	the	delivered	element(s)	represents	the	culmination	of	the	earnings	process	for	that	element(s).If	these	criteria	are	not	met,	the	arrangement	is	accounted	for	as	one	unit	of	accounting	which	would	result	in	revenue	being	recognized	on	a	straight-line	basis	or	being	deferred	until	the	earlier	of	when	such	criteria	are	met	or	when	the	last	undelivered	element	is	delivered.	If	these	criteria	are	met	for	each	element	and	there	is	VSOE	of	fair	value	for	all	units	of	accounting	in	an	arrangement,	the	arrangement	consideration	is	allocated	to	the	separate	units	of	accounting	based	on	each	unit’s	relative	VSOE	of	fair	value.	There	may	be	cases,	however,	in	which	there	is	VSOE	of	fair	value	of	the	undelivered	item(s)	but	no	such	evidence	for	the	delivered	item(s).	In	these	cases,	the	residual	method	is	used	to	allocate	the	arrangement	consideration.	Under	the	residual	method,	the	amount	of	consideration	allocated	to	the	delivered	item(s)	equals	the	total	arrangement	consideration	less	the	aggregate	VSOE	of	fair	value	of	the	undelivered	elements.
FinancingFinance income attributable to sales-type leases, direct financing leases and loans is recognized on the accrual basis using the effective interest method. Operating lease income is recognized on a straightline basis over the term of the lease.ServiceS coStSrecurring operating costs for outsourcing contracts, including costs related to bid and proposal activities, are expensed as incurred. Certain eligible, nonrecurring costs incurred in the initial phases of outsourcing contracts are deferred and subsequently amortized. These costs consist of transition and set up costs related to the installation of systems and processes and are amortized on a straight-line basis over the expected period of benefit, not to exceed the term of the contract. Additionally, fixed assets associated with outsourcing contracts are capitalized and depreciated on a straight-line basis over the expected useful life of the asset. If an asset is contract specific, then the depreciation period is the shorter of the useful life of the asset or the contract term. Amounts paid to clients in excess of the fair value of acquired assets used in outsourcing arrangements are deferred and amortized on a straight-line basis as a reduction of revenue over the expected period of benefit not to exceed the term of the contract. The company performs periodic reviews to assess the recoverability of deferred contract transition and set up costs. This review is done by comparing the estimated minimum remaining undiscounted cash flows of a contract to the unamortized contract costs. If such minimum undiscounted cash flows are not sufficient to recover the unamortized costs, a loss is recognized. Deferred services transition and set up costs were $1,511 million and $1,004 million at December 31, 2006 and December 31, 2005, respectively. The primary driver of the increase year to year was the continued growth of the company’s Global Services business. Amortization expense of deferred services transition and set up costs is estimated at December 31, 2006 to be $386 million in 2007, $324 million in 2008, $250 million in 2009, $188 million in 2010, and $363 million thereafter. Deferred amounts paid to clients in excess of the fair value of acquired assets used in outsourcing arrangements were $210 million and $227 million at December 31, 2006 and December 31, 2005, respectively. Amortization of deferred amounts paid to clients in excess of the fair value of acquired assets is recorded as an offset of revenue and is estimated at December 31, 2006 to be $94 million in 2007, $57 million in 2008, $37 million in 2009, $16 million in 2010, and $5 million thereafter. In situations in which an outsourcing contract is terminated, the terms of the contract may require the client to reimburse the company for the recovery of unbilled accounts receivable, unamortized deferred costs incurred to purchase specific assets utilized in the delivery of services and to pay any additional costs incurred by the company to transition the services.SoFtware coStScosts that are related to the conceptual formulation and design of licensed programs are expensed as incurred to research, development and engineering expense. Also, for licensed programs, the company capitalizes costs that are incurred to produce the finished product after technological feasibility has been established. Capitalized amounts are amortized using the straight-line method, which is applied over periods ranging up to three years. The company performs periodic reviews to ensure that unamortized program costs remain recoverable from future revenue. Costs to support or service licensed programs are charged to software cost as incurred.  The company capitalizes certain costs that are incurred to purchase or to create and implement internal-use computer software, which includes software coding, installation, testing and certain data conversion. These capitalized costs are amortized on a straight-line basis over two years and are recorded in Selling, general and administrative expense. See note I, “Intangible Assets Including Goodwill,” on pages 80 and 81.Product warrantieSthe company offers warranties for its hardware products that range up to four years, with the majority being either one or three years. Estimated costs from warranty terms standard to the deliverable are recognized when revenue is recorded for the related deliverable. The company estimates its warranty costs standard to the deliverable based on historical warranty claim experience and applies this estimate to the revenue stream for products under warranty. Estimated future costs for warranties applicable to revenue recognized in the current period are charged to cost of revenue. The warranty accrual is reviewed quarterly to verify that it properly reflects the remaining obligation based on the anticipated expenditures over the balance of the obligation period. Adjustments are made when actual warranty claim experience differs from estimates. Costs from fixed-price support or maintenance contracts, including extended-warranty contracts, are recognized as incurred.  Changes in the company’s warranty liability balance are presented in the following table:at DECEMBER 31: 	 2006 2005Balance at January 1 	 $ 754 $?944?Current period accruals 	 540 622Accrual adjustments to reflect  	actual experience 	 49 19Charges incurred 	 (762)?(831)Balance at December 31 	 $ 582 $?754The decrease in the balance was primarily driven by a reduction in estimated future costs as a result of the divestiture of the company’s Personal Computing business to Lenovo Group Limited (Lenovo) in April 2005. ShiPPing and handlingcosts related to shipping and handling are included in cost in the consolidated Statement of earnings.exPenSe and other incomeSelling, general and administrativeSelling, general and administrative (SG&A) expense is charged to income as incurred. Expenses of promoting and selling products and services are classified as selling expense and include such items as advertising, sales commissions and travel. General and administrative expense includes such items as compensation, office supplies, nonincome taxes, insurance and office rental. In addition, general and administrative expense includes other operating items such as a provision for doubtful accounts, workforce accruals for contractually obligated payments to employees terminated in the ongoing course of business, amortization of certain intangible assets and environmental remediation costs. Certain special actions discussed in note R, “2005 Actions,” on pages 93 and 94 are also included in SG&A.advertising and Promotional expenseThe company expenses advertising and promotional costs when incurred. Cooperative advertising reimbursements from vendors are recorded net of advertising and promotional expense in the period the related advertising and promotional expense is incurred. Advertising and promotional expense, which includes media, agency and promotional expense, was $1,195 million, $1,284 million and $1,335 million in 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively, and is recorded in SG&A expense in the Consolidated Statement of Earnings. research, development and engineeringResearch, development and engineering (RD&E) costs are expensed as incurred. intellectual Property and custom  development incomeAs part of the company’s business model and as a result of the company’s ongoing investment in research and development, the company licenses and sells the rights to certain of its intellectual property (IP) including internally developed patents, trade secrets and technological know-how. Certain transfers of IP to third parties are licensing/ royalty-based and other transfers are transaction-based sales and other transfers. Licensing/royalty-based fees involve transfers in which the company earns the income over time, or the amount of income is not fixed or determinable until the licensee sells future related products (i.e., variable royalty, based upon licensee’s revenue). Sales and other transfers typically include transfers of IP whereby the company has fulfilled its obligations and the fee received is fixed or determinable at the transfer date. The company also enters into cross-licensing arrangements of patents, and income from these arrangements is recorded only to the extent cash is received. Furthermore, the company earns income from certain custom development projects for strategic technology partners and specific clients. The company records the income from these projects when the fee is realized or realizable and earned, is not refundable and is not dependent upon the success of the project.other (income) and expenseOther (income) and expense includes interest income (other than from the company’s Global Financing external business transactions), gains and losses on certain derivative instruments, gains and losses from securities and other investments, gains and losses from certain real estate activity, foreign currency transaction gains and losses, gains and losses from the sale of businesses and amounts related to accretion of asset retirement obligations. Certain special actions discussed in note R, “2005 Actions,” on pages 93 and 94 are also included in Other (income) and expense. buSineSS combinationS and intangible  aSSetS including goodwillthe company accounts for business combinations using the purchase method of accounting and accordingly, the assets and liabilities of the acquired entities are recorded at their estimated fair values at the date of acquisition. Goodwill represents the excess of the purchase price over the fair value of net assets, including the amount assigned to identifiable intangible assets. The company does not amortize the goodwill balance. Substantially all of the company’s goodwill is not deductible for tax purposes. The primary drivers that generate goodwill are the value of synergies between the acquired entities and the company and the acquired assembled workforce, neither of which qualifies as an identifiable intangible asset. Identifiable intangible assets with finite lives are amortized over their useful lives. See note C, “Acquisition/Divestitures,” on pages 73 to 78 and note I, “Intangible 
consolidated Statements ......................................................... 56 notes .....................................................................................62 A-G.......................................................................................... 62 . A..Significant.Accounting.Policies........................................ 62. B..Accounting.Changes........................................................ 71 . C..Acquisitions/Divestitures.................................................. 73 . D..Financial.Instruments.(excluding.derivatives)................. 78Assets Including Goodwill,” on pages 80 and 81, for additional information. The results of operations of the acquired businesses were included in the company’s Consolidated Financial Statements from the respective dates of acquisition.imPairmentassets, other than goodwill, are tested for impairment based on undiscounted cash flows and, if impaired, written down to fair value based on either discounted cash flows or appraised values. Goodwill is tested annually for impairment, or sooner when circumstances indicate an impairment may exist, using a fair-value approach at the reporting unit level. A reporting unit is the operating segment, or a business, which is one level below that operating segment (the “component” level) if discrete financial information is prepared and regularly reviewed by management at the segment level. Components are aggregated as a single reporting unit if they have similar economic characteristics.dePreciation and amortizationPlant, rental machines and other property are carried at cost and depreciated over their estimated useful lives using the straightline method. The estimated useful lives of depreciable properties are as follows: buildings, 50 years; building equipment, 10 to 20 years; land improvements, 20 years; plant, laboratory and office equipment, 2 to 15 years; and computer equipment, 1.5 to 5 years. Leasehold improvements are amortized over the shorter of their estimated useful lives or the related lease term, rarely exceeding 25 years. Capitalized software costs incurred or acquired after technological feasibility has been established are amortized over periods up to five years. Capitalized costs for internal-use software are amortized on a straight-line basis over two years. (See “Software Costs” on page 65 for additional information). Other intangible assets are amortized over periods between three and seven years. environmentalthe cost of internal environmental protection programs that are preventative in nature are expensed as incurred. When a cleanup program becomes likely, and it is probable that the company will incur cleanup costs and those costs can be reasonably estimated, the company accrues remediation costs for known environmental liabilities. The company’s maximum exposure for all environmental liabilities cannot be estimated and no amounts are recorded for environmental liabilities that are not probable or estimable.aSSet retirement obligationSasset retirement obligations (aro) are legal obligations associated with the retirement of long-lived assets. These liabilities are initially recorded at fair value and the related asset retirement costs are capitalized by increasing the carrying amount of the related assets by the same amount as the liability. Asset retirement costs are subsequently depreciated over the useful lives of the related assets. Subsequent to initial recognition, the company records period-to-period changes in the ARO liability resulting from the passage of time and revisions to either the timing or the amount of the original estimate of undiscounted cash flows.retirement-related beneFitSeffective december 31, 2006, the company adopted the provisions of SFaS no. 158, “employer’s accounting for defined benefit Pension and Other Postretirement Plans—an amendment of FASB Statements No. 87, 88, 106, and 132(R)” (SFAS No. 158). SFAS No. 158 requires the recognition of the funded status of the pension plans and nonpension postretirement benefit plans (retirement-related benefit plans) as an asset or a liability in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position, the recognition of changes in that funded status in the year in which they occur through the Gains and (losses) not affecting retained earnings, net of tax, and the recognition of previously unrecognized gains/(losses), prior service costs/(credits) and transition assets as a component of Accumulated gains and (losses) not affecting retained earnings in the Consolidated Statement of Stockholders’ Equity. The provisions of SFAS No. 158 were adopted pursuant to the transition provisions therein. See note B, “Accounting Changes” on page 71 and note V, “Retirement-Related Benefits,” on pages 100 to 111 for additional information.defined benefit Pension and nonpension Postretirement benefit PlansThe funded status of the company’s retirement-related benefit plans is recognized in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position. The funded status is measured as the difference between the fair value of plan assets and the benefit obligation at December 31, the measurement date. For defined benefit pension plans, the benefit obligation is the projected benefit obligation (PBO) and for the nonpension postretirement benefit plans the benefit obligation is the accumulated postretirement benefit obligation (APBO). The PBO represents the actuarial present value of benefits expected to be paid upon retirement based on estimated future compensation levels. The APBO represents the actuarial present value of postretirement benefits attributed to employee services already rendered. The fair value of plan assets represents the current market value of cumulative company contributions made to an irrevocable trust fund, held for the sole benefit of participants, which are invested by the trust fund. Overfunded plans, with the fair value of plan assets exceeding the benefit obligation, are aggregated and recorded as a Prepaid pension asset equal to this excess. Underfunded plans, with the benefit obligation exceeding the fair value of plan assets, are aggregated and recorded as a Retirement and nonpension postretirement benefit obligation equal to this excess. The current portion of the Retirement and nonpension postretirement benefit obligations represent the actuarial present value of benefits payable in the next 12 months exceeding the fair value of plan assets, measured on a plan-by-plan basis. This liability is recorded in Compensation and benefits in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position. (Gains)/losses and prior service cost/(credit) not recognized as a component of net periodic pension cost/(income) in the Consolidated Statement of Earnings as they arise are recognized as a component of Gains and (losses) not affecting retained earnings in the Consolidated Statement of Stockholders’ Equity, net of tax. Those (gains)/losses and prior service cost/(credit) are subsequently recognized as a component of net periodic pension period cost/(income) pursuant to the recognition and amortization provisions of applicable accounting standards. (Gains)/losses arise as a result of differences between actual experience and assumptions or as a result of changes in actuarial assumptions. Prior service cost/(credit) represents the cost of benefit improvements attributable to prior service granted in plan amendments. Net periodic pension cost/(income) is recorded in the Consolidated Statement of Earnings and includes service cost, interest cost, expected return on plan assets, amortization of prior service cost and (gains)/ losses previously recognized as a component of Gains and (losses) not affecting retained earnings and amortization of the net transition asset remaining in Accumulated gains and (losses) not affecting retained earnings. Service cost represents the actuarial present value of participant benefits earned in the current year. Interest cost represents the time value of money cost associated with the passage of time. Certain events, such as changes in employee base, plan amendments and changes in actuarial assumptions, result in a change in the benefit obligation and the corresponding change in the Gains and (losses) not affecting retained earnings. The result of these events is amortized as a component of net periodic cost/(income) over the service lives of the participants, provided such amounts exceed thresholds which are based upon the benefit obligation or the value of plan assets. The average service lives of the IBM Personal Pension Plan (PPP), a U.S. plan, participants currently approximates 11 years and varies for participants in non-U.S. plans. The measurement of the benefit obligation and net periodic pension cost/(income) is based on the company’s estimates and actuarial valuations provided by third-party actuaries which are approved by the company’s management. These valuations reflect the terms of the plans and use participant-specific information such as compensation, age and years of service, as well as certain assumptions, including estimates of discount rates, expected return on plan assets, rate of compensation increases, interest crediting rates and mortality rates.defined contribution PlansThe company records expense for defined contribution plans for the company’s contribution when the employee renders service to the company, essentially coinciding with the cash contributions to the plans.Stock-baSed comPenSationStock-based compensation represents the cost related to stockbased awards granted to employees. the company measures stock-based compensation cost at grant date, based on the estimated fair value of the award and recognizes the cost as expense on a straight-line basis (net of estimated forfeitures) over the employee requisite service period. The company estimates the fair value of stock options using a Black-Scholes valuation model. The expense is recorded in Cost, SG&A, and RD&E in the Consolidated Statement of Earnings based on the employees’ respective function.  The company records deferred tax assets for awards that result in deductions on the company’s income tax returns, based on the amount of compensation cost recognized and the company’s statutory tax rate in the jurisdiction in which it will receive a deduction. Differences between the deferred tax assets recognized for financial reporting purposes and the actual tax deduction reported on the company’s income tax return are recorded in Additional Paid-In Capital (if the tax deduction exceeds the deferred tax asset) or in the Consolidated Statement of Earnings (if the deferred tax asset exceeds the tax deduction and no additional paid-in capital exists from previous awards).  See note U, “Stock-Based Compensation,” on pages 96 to 100 for additional information.income taxeSincome tax expense is based on reported income before income taxes. Deferred income taxes reflect the tax effect of temporary differences between asset and liability amounts that are recognized for financial reporting purposes and the amounts that are recognized for income tax purposes. These deferred taxes are measured by applying currently enacted tax laws. Valuation allowances are recognized to reduce deferred tax assets to the amount that will more likely than not be realized. In assessing the need for a valuation allowance, management considers all available evidence including past operating results, estimates of future taxable income and the feasibility of ongoing tax planning strategies. When the company changes its determination as to the amount of deferred tax assets that can be realized, the valuation allowance is adjusted with a corresponding impact to income tax expense in the period in which such determination is made.  The company recognizes tax liabilities based on estimates of whether additional taxes will be due. These tax liabilities are recognized when, despite the company’s belief that its tax return positions are supportable, the company believes that certain positions are likely to be challenged and may not be fully sustained upon review by tax authorities. These liabilities are included in Taxes in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position. To the extent that the 
consolidated Statements ......................................................... 56 notes .....................................................................................62 A-G.......................................................................................... 62 . A..Significant.Accounting.Policies........................................ 62. B..Accounting.Changes........................................................ 71 . C..Acquisitions/Divestitures.................................................. 73 . D..Financial.Instruments.(excluding.derivatives)................. 78final tax outcome of these matters is different than the amounts recorded, such differences impact income tax expense in the period in which such determination is made. Interest and penalties, if any, related to accrued liabilities for potential tax assessments are included in income tax expense.tranSlation oF non-u.S.  currency amountSassets and liabilities of non-u.S. subsidiaries that have a local functional currency are translated to u.S. dollars at year-end exchange rates. Translation adjustments are recorded in Accumulated gains and (losses) not affecting retained earnings in the Consolidated Statement of Stockholders’ Equity. Income and expense items are translated at weighted-average rates of exchange prevailing during the year. Inventories, plant, rental machines and other property—net, and other non-monetary assets and liabilities of non-U.S. subsidiaries and branches that operate in U.S. dollars are translated at approximate exchange rates prevailing when the company acquired the assets or liabilities. All other assets and liabilities denominated in a currency other than U.S. dollars are translated at year-end exchange rates with the transaction gain or loss recognized in Other (income) and expense. Cost of sales and depreciation are translated at historical exchange rates. All other income and expense items are translated at the weighted-average rates of exchange prevailing during the year. These translation gains and losses are included in net income for the period in which exchange rates change.derivativeSall derivatives are recognized in the consolidated Statement of Financial Position at fair value and are reported in Prepaid expenses and other current assets, Investments and sundry assets, Other accrued expenses and liabilities or Other liabilities. Classification of each derivative as current or non-current is based upon whether the maturity of the instrument is less than or greater than 12 months. To qualify for hedge accounting in accordance with SFAS No. 133, “Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities,” as amended by SFAS No. 138, “Accounting for Certain Derivative Instruments and Certain Hedging Activities,” and SFAS No. 149, “Amendment of Statement 133 on Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities,” (collectively, “SFAS No. 133”), the company requires that the instruments be effective in reducing the risk exposure that they are designated to hedge. For instruments that hedge cash flows, hedge effectiveness criteria also require that it be probable that the underlying transaction will occur. Instruments that meet established accounting criteria are formally designated as hedges. These criteria demonstrate that the derivative is expected to be highly effective at offsetting changes in fair value or cash flows of the underlying exposure both at inception of the hedging relationship and on an ongoing basis. The method of assessing hedge effectiveness and measuring hedge ineffectiveness is formally documented at hedge inception. The company assesses hedge effectiveness and measures hedge ineffectiveness at least quarterly throughout the designated hedge period. The company applies hedge accounting in accordance with SFAS No. 133, whereby the company designates each derivative as a hedge of: (1) the fair value of a recognized financial asset or liability or of an unrecognized firm commitment (“fair value” hedge); (2) the variability of anticipated cash flows of a forecasted transaction or the cash flows to be received or paid related to a recognized financial asset or liability (“cash flow” hedge); or (3) a hedge of a long-term investment (“net investment” hedge) in a foreign operation. From time to time, however, the company may enter into derivative contracts that economically hedge certain of its risks, even though hedge accounting does not apply or the company elects not to apply hedge accounting under SFAS No. 133. In these cases, there exists a natural hedging relationship in which changes in the fair value of the derivative, which are recognized currently in net income, act as an economic offset to changes in the fair value of the underlying hedged item(s).  Changes in the fair value of a derivative that is designated as a fair value hedge, along with offsetting changes in the fair value of the underlying hedged exposure, are recorded in earnings each period. For hedges of interest rate risk, the fair value adjustments are recorded as adjustments to Interest expense and Cost of Global Financing in the Consolidated Statement of Earnings. For hedges of currency risk associated with recorded financial assets or liabilities, derivative fair value adjustments are recognized in Other (income) and expense in the Consolidated Statement of Earnings. Changes in the fair value of a derivative that is designated as a cash flow hedge are recorded, net of applicable taxes, in the Accumulated gains and (losses) not affecting retained earnings, a component of Stockholders’ equity. When net income is affected by the variability of the underlying cash flow, the applicable offsetting amount of the gain or loss from the derivative that is deferred in Stockholders’ equity is released to net income and reported in Interest expense, Cost, SG&A expense or Other (income) and expense in the Consolidated Statement of Earnings based on the nature of the underlying cash flow hedged. Effectiveness for net investment hedging derivatives is measured on a spot-to-spot basis. The effective portion of changes in the fair value of net investment hedging derivatives and other non-derivative risk management instruments designated as net investment hedges are recorded as foreign currency translation adjustments, net of applicable taxes, in the Accumulated gains and (losses) not affecting retained earnings section of the Consolidated Statement of Stockholders’ Equity. Changes in the fair value of the portion of a net investment hedging derivative excluded from the effectiveness assessment are recorded in Interest expense.  When the underlying hedged item ceases to exist, all changes in the fair value of the derivative are included in net income each period until the instrument matures. When the derivative transaction ceases to exist, a hedged asset or liability is no longer adjusted for changes in its fair value except as required under other relevant accounting standards. Derivatives that are not designated as hedges, as well as changes in the fair value of derivatives that do not effectively offset changes in the fair value of the underlying hedged item throughout the designated hedge period (collectively, “ineffectiveness”), are recorded in net income each period and are reported in Other (income) and expense.  The company reports cash flows arising from the company’s derivative financial instruments consistent with the classification of cash flows from the underlying hedged items that the derivatives are hedging. Accordingly, the majority of cash flows associated with the company’s derivative programs are classified in Cash flows from operating activities in the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows. Cash flow from derivatives that do not qualify as hedges is reported in investing activities. For currency swaps designated as hedges of foreign currency denominated debt (included in the company’s debt risk management program as addressed in note L, “Derivatives and Hedging Transactions,” on pages 83 through 86), cash flows directly associated with the settlement of the principal element of these swaps are reported in Payments to settle debt in the Cash Flow from Financing Activities from Continuing Operations section of the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows. Financial inStrumentSin determining fair value of its financial instruments, the company uses a variety of methods and assumptions that are based on market conditions and risks existing at each balance sheet date. For the majority of financial instruments, including most derivatives, long-term investments and long-term debt, standard market conventions and techniques such as discounted cash flow analysis, option pricing models, replacement cost and termination cost are used to determine fair value. Dealer quotes are used for the remaining financial instruments. All methods of assessing fair value result in a general approximation of value, and such value may never actually be realized.caSh equivalentSall highly liquid investments with maturities of three months or less at the date of purchase are considered to be cash equivalents. marketable SecuritieSdebt securities included in current assets represent securities that are expected to be realized in cash within one year of the balance sheet date. Long-term debt securities that are not expected to be realized in cash within one year and alliance equity securities that are within the scope of SFAS No. 115, “Accounting for Certain Investments in Debt and Equity Securities,” are included in Investments and sundry assets. Those securities are considered available-for-sale and are reported at fair value with unrealized gains and losses, net of applicable taxes, recorded in Accumulated gains and (losses) not affecting retained earnings within Stockholders’ equity. Realized gains and losses are calculated based on the specific identification method. Other-than-temporary declines in market value from original cost are charged to Other (income) and expense in the period in which the loss occurs. In determining whether an other-than-temporary decline in the market value has occurred, the company considers the duration that, and extent to which, fair value of the investment is below its cost. Realized gains and losses also are included in Other (income) and expense in the Consolidated Statement of Earnings. inventorieSraw materials, work in process and finished goods are stated at the lower of average cost or market. in accordance with SFaS no. 95, “Statement of Cash Flows,” cash flows related to the sale of the company’s inventories are reflected in Net Cash Provided by Operating Activities from Continuing Operations in the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows. allowance For uncollectible receivableS tradeAn allowance for uncollectible trade receivables is estimated based on a combination of write-off history, aging analysis and any specific, known troubled accounts.FinancingFinancing receivables include sales-type leases, direct financing leases and loans. Below are the methodologies the company uses to calculate both its specific and its unallocated reserves, which are applied consistently to its different portfolios. SPeciFic–The company reviews all financing account receivables considered at risk on a quarterly basis. The review primarily consists of an analysis based upon current information available about the client, such as financial statements, news reports and published credit ratings, as well as the current economic environment, collateral net of repossession cost and prior collection history. For loans that are collateral dependent, impairment is measured using the fair value of the collateral when foreclosure is probable. Using this information, the company determines the expected cash flow for the receivable and calculates a recommended estimate of the potential loss and the probability of loss. For those accounts in which the loss is probable, the company records a specific reserve. unallocated–The company records an unallocated reserve that is calculated by applying a reserve rate to its different portfolios, excluding accounts that have been specifically reserved. This reserve 
consolidated Statements ......................................................... 56 notes .....................................................................................62 A-G.......................................................................................... 62 . A..Significant.Accounting.Policies........................................ 62. B..Accounting.Changes........................................................ 71. C..Acquisitions/Divestitures.................................................. 73 . D..Financial.Instruments.(excluding.derivatives)................. 78rate is based upon credit rating, probability of default, term, asset characteristics and loss history. Receivable losses are charged against the allowance when management believes the uncollectibility of the receivable is confirmed. Subsequent recoveries, if any, are credited to the allowance.  Certain receivables for which the company recorded specific reserves may also be placed on non-accrual status. Non-accrual assets are those receivables (impaired loans or non-performing leases) with specific reserves and other accounts for which it is likely that the company will be unable to collect all amounts due according to original terms of the lease or loan agreement. Income recognition is discontinued on these receivables. Cash collections are first applied as a reduction to principal outstanding. Any cash received in excess of principal payments outstanding is recognized as interest income. Receivables may be removed from non-accrual status, if appropriate, based upon changes in client circumstances.eStimated reSidual valueS oF leaSe aSSetSthe recorded residual values of the company’s lease assets are estimated at the inception of the lease to be the expected fair value of the assets at the end of the lease term. The company periodically reassesses the realizable value of its lease residual values. Any anticipated increases in specific future residual values are not recognized before realization through remarketing efforts. Anticipated decreases in specific future residual values that are considered to be other-than-temporary are recognized immediately upon identification and are recorded as an adjustment to the residual-value estimate. For sales-type and direct financing leases, this reduction lowers the recorded net investment and is recognized as a loss charged to finance income in the period in which the estimate is changed, as well as an adjustment to unearned income to reduce future-period finance income. common Stockcommon stock refers to the $.20 par value capital stock as designated in the company’s certificate of incorporation. Treasury stock is accounted for using the cost method. When treasury stock is reissued, the value is computed and recorded using a weighted-average basis. earningS Per Share oF common Stockearnings per share of common stock—basic is computed by dividing net income by the weighted-average number of common shares outstanding for the period. Earnings per share of common stock—assuming dilution, reflects the maximum potential dilution that could occur if securities or other contracts to issue common stock were exercised or converted into common stock and would then share in the net income of the company. See note S, “Earnings Per Share of Common Stock,” on page 95 for additional information. b. accounting changeSnew StandardS to be imPlementedin September 2006, the FaSb finalized SFaS no. 157, “Fair value measurements,” which will become effective in 2008. This Statement defines fair value, establishes a framework for measuring fair value, and expands disclosures about fair value measurements; however, it does not require any new fair value measurements. The provisions of SFAS No. 157 will be applied prospectively to fair value measurements and disclosures beginning in the first quarter of 2008 and is not expected to have a material effect on the company’s Consolidated Financial Statements. In June 2006, the FASB released FASB Interpretation No. 48, “Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes—an interpretation of FASB Statement No. 109” (FIN 48). FIN 48 clarifies the accounting and reporting for uncertainties in income tax law. This Interpretation prescribes a comprehensive model for the financial statement recognition, measurement, presentation and disclosure of uncertain tax positions taken or expected to be taken in income tax returns. The company has substantially completed the process of evaluating the effect of FIN 48 on its Consolidated Financial Statements as of the beginning of the period of adoption, January 1, 2007. The company estimates that the cumulative effects of applying this Interpretation will be recorded as a $0.1 billion increase to beginning Retained earnings. In addition, in accordance with the provisions of FIN 48, the company will reclassify an estimated $2.0 billion of unrecognized tax benefits from current to non-current liabilities because payment of cash is not anticipated within one year of the balance sheet date. In March 2006, the FASB issued SFAS No. 156, “Accounting for Servicing of Financial Assets—an amendment of FASB Statement No. 140,” that provides guidance on accounting for separately recognized servicing assets and servicing liabilities. In accordance with the provisions of SFAS No. 156, separately recognized servicing assets and servicing liabilities must be initially measured at fair value, if practicable. Subsequent to initial recognition, the company may use either the amortization method or the fair-value measurement method to account for servicing assets and servicing liabilities within the scope of this Statement. The company will adopt SFAS No. 156 in fiscal year 2007. The adoption of this Statement is not expected to have a material effect on the company’s Consolidated Financial Statements.  In February 2006, the FASB issued SFAS No. 155, “Accounting for Certain Hybrid Financial Instruments—an amendment of FASB Statements No. 133 and 140,” to permit fair value remeasurement for any hybrid financial instrument that contains an embedded derivative that otherwise would require bifurcation in accordance with the provisions of SFAS No. 133, “Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities.” The company will adopt SFAS No. 155 in fiscal year 2007. The adoption of this Statement is not expected to have a material effect on the company’s Consolidated Financial Statements.StandardS imPlementedas discussed in note a, “Significant accounting Policies,” on pages 62 to 71, effective december 31, 2006, the company adopted SFaS No. 158, “Employer’s Accounting for Defined Benefit Pension and Other Postretirement Plans—an amendment of FASB Statements No. 87, 88, 106 and 132(R),” which requires the recognition of the funded status of the retirement-related benefit plans in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position and the recognition of the changes in that funded status in the year in which the changes occur through Gains and (losses) not affecting retained earnings, net of applicable tax effects. The provisions of SFAS No. 158 were adopted pursuant to the transition provisions therein. The company measures defined benefit plan assets and obligations as of December 31 and SFAS No. 158 did not affect the company’s existing valuation practices. The adoption of SFAS No. 158 had no impact on the company’s existing debt covenants, credit ratings or financial flexibility. See note V, “Retirement-Related Benefits,” on pages 100 to 111 for additional information, including the incremental effect of the adoption on the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position.
 In September 2006, the SEC issued Staff Accounting Bulletin (SAB) No. 108, codified as SAB Topic 1.N, “Considering the Effects of Prior Year Misstatements when Quantifying Misstatements in Current Year Financial Statements.” SAB No. 108 describes the approach that should be used to quantify the materiality of a misstatement and provides guidance for correcting prior-year errors. The company early adopted SAB No. 108 in the third quarter of 2006 and accordingly, follows SAB No. 108 requirements when quantifying financial statement misstatements. The adoption of SAB No. 108 did not require any changes to the company’s Consolidated Financial Statements.  In the third quarter of 2006, the company adopted FASB Staff Position (FSP) FIN 46(R)-6, “Determining the Variability to Be Considered in Applying FASB Interpretation No. 46(R).” FSP FIN No. 46(R)-6 clarifies that the variability to be considered in applying FASB Interpretation 46(R) shall be based on an analysis of the design of the variable interest entity. The adoption of this FSP did not have a material effect on the company’s Consolidated Financial Statements.  In the first quarter of 2006, the company adopted SFAS No. 154, “Accounting Changes and Error Corrections—a replacement of APB Opinion No. 20 and FASB Statement No. 3.” SFAS No. 154 changed the requirements for the accounting for and reporting of a voluntary change in accounting principle. The adoption of this statement did not affect the company’s Consolidated Financial Statements in fiscal year 2006. Its effects on future periods will depend on the nature and significance of any future accounting changes subject to this statement.  Beginning January 2006, the company adopted SFAS No. 151, “Inventory Costs—an amendment of ARB No. 43, Chapter 4.” SFAS No. 151 requires certain abnormal expenditures to be recognized as expenses in the current period versus being capitalized in inventory. It also requires that the amount of fixed production overhead allocated to inventory be based on the normal capacity of the production facilities. The adoption of this statement did not have a material effect on the company’s Consolidated Financial Statements.  Effective January 1, 2005, the company adopted the provisions of SFAS No. 123(R), “Share-Based Payment.” The company elected to adopt the modified retrospective application method provided by SFAS No. 123(R) and accordingly, financial statement amounts for the periods presented herein reflect results as if the fair value method of expensing had been applied from the original effective date of SFAS No. 123. See note A, “Significant Accounting Policies,” on pages 62 to 71 and note U, “Stock-Based Compensation,” on pages 96 to 100 for additional information. In March 2005, the FASB issued FASB Interpretation No. 47, “Accounting for Conditional Asset Retirement Obligations, an interpretation of FASB Statement No. 143” (FIN 47). FIN 47 clarifies that conditional asset retirement obligations (AROs) meet the definition of liabilities and should be recognized when incurred if their fair values can be reasonably estimated. The company implemented FIN 47 on December 31, 2005 and recorded conditional AROs of approximately $85 million. These conditional AROs relate to the company’s contractual obligations to remove leasehold improvements in certain non- U.S. locations thereby restoring leased space to its original condition. Upon implementation of FIN 47, the company recorded a $36 million charge (net of income tax benefit of $21 million) which was reported as a cumulative effect of change in accounting principle in the 2005 Consolidated Statement of Earnings. The company’s accounting policy for AROs is described in note A, “Significant Accounting Policies,” on page 67. Pro forma effects of retroactively applying FIN 47 for the years 2005 and 2004 are as follows:(Dollars in millions except per share amounts)foR thE yEaR EnDED DECEMBER 31:	 2005 2004Pro forma amounts assuming accounting  change is applied retroactively:Pro forma net income 	?$7,964?$7,474Pro forma earnings per share of  	common stock—assuming dilution 	?$? 4.89?$? 4.38Pro forma earnings per share  	of common stock—basic 	?$? 4.98?$? 4.46ARO liabilities at December 31, 2005  	and pro forma ARO liabilities  	at December 31, 2004 	?$?? ?85?$?? ?74As of December 31, 2005, the company was unable to estimate the range of settlement dates and the related probabilities for certain 
consolidated Statements ......................................................... 56 notes .....................................................................................62 A-G.......................................................................................... 62. A..Significant.Accounting.Policies........................................ 62. B..Accounting.Changes........................................................ 71 . C..Acquisitions/Divestitures.................................................. 73. D..Financial.Instruments.(excluding.derivatives)................. 78 . E..Inventories........................................................................ 79asbestos remediation AROs. These conditional AROs are primarily related to the encapsulated structural fireproofing that is not subject to abatement unless the buildings are demolished and non-encapsulated asbestos that the company would remediate only if it performed major renovations of certain existing buildings. Because these conditional obligations have indeterminate settlement dates, the company could not develop a reasonable estimate of their fair values. The company will continue to assess its ability to estimate fair values at each future reporting date. The related liability will be recognized once sufficient additional information becomes available. In June 2005, the FASB issued FASB Staff Position (FSP) No. FAS 143-1, “Accounting for Electronic Equipment Waste Obligations,” (FSP FAS 143-1) that provides guidance on how commercial users and producers of electronic equipment should recognize and measure asset retirement obligations associated with the European Directive 2002/96/EC on Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment (the “Directive”). In 2005, the company adopted FSP FAS 143-1 in those European Union (EU) member countries that transposed the Directive into country-specific laws. Its adoption did not have a material effect on the company’s Consolidated Financial Statements. The effect of applying FSP FAS 143-1 in the remaining countries in future periods is not expected to have a material effect on the company’s Consolidated Financial Statements. 	In the third quarter of 2005, the company adopted SFAS No. 153, “Exchanges of Nonmonetary Assets—an amendment of APB Opinion No. 29.” SFAS No. 153 requires that exchanges of productive assets be accounted for at fair value unless fair value cannot be reasonably determined or the transaction lacks commercial substance. The adoption of SFAS No. 153 did not have a material effect on the company’s Consolidated Financial Statements. The American Jobs Creation Act of 2004 (the “Act”) introduced a temporary incentive for the company to repatriate earnings accumulated outside the U.S. In the fourth quarter of 2004, the company adopted the provisions of FSP No. FAS 109-2, “Accounting and Disclosure Guidance for the Foreign Earnings Repatriation Provision within the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004.” According to FSP No. FAS 109-2, the company was allowed time beyond the financial reporting period of enactment to evaluate the effects of the Act on its plan for repatriation of foreign earnings for purposes of applying SFAS No. 109, “Accounting for Income Taxes.” Accordingly, as of December 31, 2004, the company did not adjust its income tax expense or deferred tax liability to reflect the possible effect of the new repatriation provision. In 2005, the company repatriated $9.5 billion of foreign earnings and recorded income tax expense of $525 million associated with this repatriation. In January 2003, the FASB issued FASB Interpretation No. 46 (FIN 46), “Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities,” and amended it by issuing FIN 46(R) in December 2003. FIN 46(R) addresses consolidation by business enterprises of variable interest entities (VIEs) that either: (1) do not have sufficient equity investment at risk to permit the entity to finance its activities without additional subordinated financial support or (2) have equity investors that lack an essential characteristic of a controlling financial interest. In accordance with the transition provisions of FIN 46(R), the company adopted FIN 46(R) for all VIEs and special-purpose entities as defined within FIN 46(R) as of March 31, 2004. These accounting pronouncements did not have a material effect on the company’s Consolidated Financial Statements.c. acquiSitionS/diveStitureSacquiSitionS2006In 2006, the company completed 13 acquisitions at an aggregate cost of $4,817 million, which was paid in cash. The cost of these acquisitions is reported in the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows net of acquired cash and cash equivalents. The tables on page 74 and 75 represent the purchase price allocations for all of the 2006 acquisitions. The Micromuse Inc., FileNet Corporation, Internet Security Systems, Inc. and MRO Software, Inc. acquisitions are shown separately given their significant purchase prices.micromuSe, inc.– On February 15, 2006, the company acquired 100 percent of the outstanding common shares of Micromuse, Inc. for cash consideration of $862 million. Micromuse is a leading provider of network management software used by banks, telecommunications carriers, governments, retailers and other organizations to monitor and manage their sophisticated technology infrastructures. The software helps customers manage increasingly complex IT systems that support the proliferation of voice, data and video traffic due to the growing adoption of voice over IP (VoIP)-based audio and video services delivered over the internet. The combination of Micromuse’s software and the company’s IT services management technology can provide a comprehensive approach to help customers reduce the complexity of their IT environments, lower operational costs and address compliance mandates. Micromuse was integrated into the Software segment upon acquisition and Goodwill, as reflected in the table on page 74, has been entirely assigned to the Software segment. The overall weighted-average useful life of the intangible assets purchased, excluding Goodwill, is 4.0 years. In the fourth quarter, as a result of completing the integration of Micromuse’s legal and intercompany structure into the company’s legal structure, the company recorded an increase in current assets and current liabilities with a corresponding offset in Goodwill totaling $137 million. These increases relate to an increase in both deferred tax assets and current tax liabilities. These adjustments are reflected in the table on page 74.Filenet corPoration– On October 12, 2006, the company acquired 100 percent of the outstanding common shares of FileNet Corporation for cash consideration of $1,609 million. FileNet is a leading provider of business process and content management solutions that help companies simplify critical and everyday decision making processes and give organizations a competitive advantage. The FileNet acquisition enhances the company’s ability to meet increasing client demand for a combination of content- and process-centric business process management capabilities, which is driven by changing governance and compliance mandates, as well as the need to integrate content-centric business processes with enterprise applications. The company has integrated its business process management and service oriented architecture (SOA) technologies with the FileNet platform to allow customers to access content wherever it may reside and use it in the context of business processes. FileNet was integrated into the Software segment upon acquisition and Goodwill, as reflected in the table below, has been entirely assigned to the Software segment. The overall weighted-average useful life of the intangible assets purchased, excluding Goodwill, is 5.9 years.internet Security SyStemS, inc.–On October 20, 2006, the company acquired 100 percent of the outstanding common shares of Internet Security Systems, Inc. (ISS) for cash consideration of $1,368 million. ISS provides security solutions to thousands of the world’s leading companies and governments, helping to proactively protect against Internet threats across networks, desktops and servers. ISS software, appliances and services monitor and manage network vulnerabilities and rapidly respond in advance of potential threats. The acquisition advances the company’s strategy to utilize IT services, software and consulting expertise to automate labor-based processes into standardized, software-based services that can help clients optimize and transform their businesses. ISS was integrated into the Global Technology Services segment upon acquisition and Goodwill, as reflected in the table on page 75, has been entirely assigned to the Global Technology Services segment. The overall weighted-average useful life of the intangible assets purchased, excluding Goodwill, is 5.6 years.mro SoFtware inc.–On October 5, 2006, the company acquired 100 percent of the outstanding common shares of MRO Software, Inc. for cash consideration of $739 million. MRO’s asset and service management software and consulting services are used by many of the world’s top companies to effectively manage how they buy, maintain and retire assets—such as production equipment, facilities, transportation and information technology hardware and software—in a wide variety of industries including utilities, manufacturing, energy, pharmaceutical and telecommunications. The acquisition builds upon the company’s strategy to leverage business consulting, IT services, and software to develop repeatable tools that help clients optimize and transform their business. MRO was integrated into the Software, Global Technology Services and Global Business Services segments upon acquisition and Goodwill, as reflected in the table on page 75, has been assigned to the Software segment for $337 million, Global Technology Services segment for $49 million and Global Business Services segment for $122 million. The overall weighted-average useful life of the intangible assets purchased, excluding Goodwill, is 5.6 years.other acquiSitionS– The company acquired nine additional companies that are presented as Other Acquisitions in the table on page 75. Three of the acquisitions were Global Services-related companies: two were integrated into the Global Technology Services segment: Viacore, Inc. and Palisades Technology Partners, LLP; the third, Valchemy, Inc., was integrated into the Global Business Services segment. Six of the acquisitions were software-related companies that were integrated into the Software segment: Cims Lab; Language Analysis Systems, (LAS) Inc.; Buildforge; Unicorn Solutions, Inc.; Rembo Technology; and Webify Solutions. The purchase price allocations resulted in aggregate Goodwill of $211 million, of which $161 million was assigned to the Software segment and $51 million was assigned to the Global Technology Services segment. The overall weighted-average useful life of the intangible assets purchased in these acquisitions, excluding Goodwill, is 3.4 years.(Dollars in millions)  	 	 	 	   	 	 	 	 	oRiginal   	 	 	 	 	aMount   	 	 	 	 	DisClosED in   	 	 	 	aMoRtization 	fiRst 	PuRChasE 	total 	filEnEt2006 aCquisitions 	 	 	 lifE (in yEaRs) 	qtR. 2006 	aDjustMEnts* 	alloCation 	CoRPoRationCurrent assets 	  $? ?201?$? ??56?$? ?257?$? ?681Fixed assets/non-current 	  8?—?8?69Intangible assets: 	Goodwill 	  N/A?694?137?831?894 	Completed technology 	  3?to?5?46?—?46?73 	Client relationships 	 3?to?7?46?—?46?194 	Other identifiable intangible assets  	  2?to?4?4?—?4?55In-process R&D 	   1?—?1?3Total assets acquired?	??1,000?193?1,193?1,969Current liabilities 	  (89)?(193)?(282)?(252)Non-current liabilities 	  (49)?—?(49)?(108)Total liabilities assumed 	  (138)?(193)?(331)?(360)Total purchase price 	  $? ?862?$???—?$? ?862?$1,609*	Adjustments	primarily	relate	to	acquisition	costs,	deferred	taxes	and	other	accruals.N/A—Not	applicable(Dollars in millions)  	 	 	 	  intERnEt MRo   	 	 	 	 aMoRtization sECuRity softwaRE, othER2006 aCquisitions 	 	 	 lifE (in yEaRs) systEMs, inC.  inC. aCquisitionsCurrent assets 	 	 ?$? ?309?$?227?$? 28Fixed assets/non-current 	 	 ?62?20?4Intangible assets: 	Goodwill 	  	 N/A?967?508?211 	Completed technology 	  	 3?to?5?135?71?8 	Client relationships 	 	 3?to?7?60?42?22 	Other identifiable intangible assets  	  	 2?to?4?21?4?4In-process R&D 	  	 ?3?—?—?Total assets acquired?	?	??1,557?872?277Current liabilities 	 	 ?(92)?(69)?(24)Non-current liabilities 	 	 ?(97)?(64)?(13)Total liabilities assumed 	 	 ?(189)?(133)?(37)Total purchase price 	 	  $1,368?$?739?$240N/A—Not	applicable See note A, “Significant Accounting Policies,” on page 66 for further description of the company’s accounting policies related to business combinations and intangible assets, including Goodwill. 2005In 2005, the company completed 16 acquisitions at an aggregate cost of $2,022 million, which was paid in cash. The cost of these acquisitions are reported in the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows net of acquired cash and cash equivalents. The table on page 76 represents the purchase price allocations for all of the 2005 acquisitions. The Ascential Corporation (Ascential) acquisition is shown separately given its significant purchase price.aScential– On April 29, 2005, the company acquired 100 percent of the outstanding common shares of Ascential for cash consideration of $1,140 million. Ascential is a provider of enterprise data integration software used to help build enterprise data warehouses, power business intelligence systems, consolidate enterprise applications, create and manage master repositories of critical business information and enable on demand data access. Ascential complements and strengthens the company’s information and integration offerings and further extends the company’s ability to enable clients to become on demand businesses by providing a single, agile infrastructure for delivering accurate, consistent, timely and coherent information. Ascential was integrated into the Software segment upon acquisition and Goodwill, as reflected in the table on page 76, has been entirely assigned to the Software segment. The overall weighted-average useful life of the intangible assets purchased, excluding Goodwill, is 3.9 years. other acquiSitionS–The company acquired 15 additional companies that are presented as Other Acquisitions in the table on page 76. Four of the acquisitions were technology services-related companies that were integrated into the Global Technology Services segment: Network Solutions; Classic Blue; Corio; and Equitant. One of the acquisitions, HealthLink, was integrated into the Global Business Services segment. Nine of the acquisitions were softwarerelated companies that were integrated into the Software segment: iPhrase; Data Power Technology, Inc.; Bowstreet; Collation Inc.; DWL; Isogon Corporation; PureEdge Solutions, Inc.; SRD; and Gluecode. One acquisition, Meiosys, was integrated into the Systems and Technology Group segment. The purchase price allocations resulted in aggregate Goodwill of $791 million, of which $456 million was assigned to the Software segment; $239 million was assigned to the Global Technology Services segment; $62 million was assigned to the Global Business Services segment; and $34 million was assigned to the Systems and Technology Group segment. The overall weightedaverage useful life of the intangible assets purchased, excluding Goodwill, is 3.1 years. (Dollars in millions)  	 	 	 	   	 	 	 	 	oRiginal   	 	 	 	 	aMount   	 	 	 	 	DisClosED in   	 	 	 	aMoRtization 	sEConD 	PuRChasE 	total 	othERaCquisitions 	 	 lifE (in yEaRs) qtR. 2005 aDjustMEnts* alloCation aCquisitionsCurrent assets 	  $? ?526?$(1)?$? ?525?$? ?137Fixed assets/non-current 	  20?—?20?28Intangible assets: 	Goodwill 	  N/A?639?1?640?791 	Completed technology 	  3?56?—?56?35 	Client relationships 	 5?46?—?46?22 	Other identifiable intangible assets  	  1–5?—?—?—?5In-process R&D 	   —?—?—?1Total assets acquired 	 ?1,287?—?1,287?1,019Current liabilities 	  (112)?(4)?(116)?(89)Non-current liabilities 	  (35)?4?(31)?(48)Total liabilities assumed 	  (147)?—?(147)?(137)Total purchase price 	  $1,140?$?—?$1,140?$? ?882*	Adjustments	primarily	relate	to	acquisition	costs,	deferred	taxes	and	other	accruals.N/A—Not	applicable2004In 2004, the company completed 14 acquisitions at an aggregate cost of $2,111 million. The cost of these acquisitions are reported in the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows net of acquired cash and cash equivalents. The table on page 77 represents the purchase price allocations for all 2004 acquisitions. The Candle Corporation (Candle) and Maersk Data/DMdata acquisitions are shown separately given the significant purchase price for each acquisition.candle– On June 7, 2004, the company acquired 100 percent of the outstanding common shares of Candle for cash consideration of $431 million. Candle provides services to develop, deploy and manage enterprise infrastructure. The acquisition allows the company to provide its clients with an enhanced set of software solutions for managing an on demand environment and complements the company’s existing middleware solutions. Candle was integrated into the Software segment upon acquisition and Goodwill, as reflected in the table on page 77, has been entirely assigned to the Software segment. The overall weighted-average useful life of the intangible assets acquired, excluding Goodwill, is 5.9 years.maerSk data/dmdata–On December 1, 2004, the company purchased 100 percent of the outstanding common stock of Maersk Data and 45 percent of the outstanding common stock of DMdata for $792 million. Maersk Data owned the remaining 55 percent of DMdata’s outstanding common stock. Maersk Data and DMdata are located in Denmark. Maersk Data is a provider of IT solutions and offers consultancy, application development, and operations and support to companies and organizations. DMdata is a provider of IT operations and its core business areas include the operation of centralized and decentralized IT systems, network establishment and operation, as well as print and security solutions for clients in a number of different industries. These acquisitions significantly increased the company’s capabilities in serving clients in the transportation and logistics industry globally, while also enhancing its capabilities in areas such as financial services, public sector, healthcare and the food and agriculture industries. Maersk Data and DM Data were integrated into the Global Technology Services and the Global Business Services segments and Goodwill, as reflected in the table on page 77, has been assigned to Global Technology Services segment for $269 million and to Global Business Services segment for $157 million. The overall 
consolidated Statements ......................................................... 56 notes .....................................................................................62 A-G.......................................................................................... 62. A..Significant.Accounting.Policies........................................ 62 . B..Accounting.Changes........................................................ 71. C..Acquisitions/Divestitures.................................................. 73. D..Financial.Instruments.(excluding.derivatives)................. 78 . E..Inventories........................................................................ 79 . F..Financing.Receivables...................................................... 79 . G..Plant,.Rental.Machines.and.Other.Property.................... 79 H-M......................................................................................... 80 N-S.......................................................................................... 88T-X........................................................................................... 96weighted-average useful life of the intangible assets acquired, excluding Goodwill, is 4.7 years.(Dollars in millions)  	 	   	 	   	 	        oRiginal aMount DisClosED in   	 	 aMoRtization sEConD PuRChasE total  othER2004 aCquisitions 	 	 lifE (in yEaRs)  qtR. 2004 aDjustMEnts* alloCation MaERsk aCquisitionsCurrent assets  $?202?$? (2)?$?200?$?319?$? ?191Fixed assets/non-current  82?(19)?63?123?176Intangible assets: 	Goodwill  N/A 256?39?295?426?711 	Completed technology 2–3?23?—?23?11?29 	Client relationships 3–7?65?—?65?100?50 	Other identifiable intangible assets 5?6?—?6?2?13Total assets acquired  634?18?652?981?1,170Current liabilities  (119)?(22)?(141)?(145)?(198)Non-current liabilities  (80)?—?(80)?(44)?(84)Total liabilities assumed  (199)?(22)?(221)?(189)?(282)Total purchase price  $?435?$? (4)?$?431?$?792?$? ?888*	Adjustments	primarily	relate	to	acquisition	costs,	deferred	taxes	and	other	accruals.N/A—Not	applicableother acquiSitionS–The company acquired 12 additional companies that are presented as Other Acquisitions in the table on page 77. Seven of the acquisitions were for technology services-related companies, which were integrated into the Global Technology Services segment and five were for software companies, which were integrated into the Software segment. The purchase price allocations resulted in aggregate Goodwill of $711 million, of which $329 million was assigned to the Software segment and $382 million was assigned to the Global Technology Services segment. The overall weighted-average useful life of the intangible assets purchased, excluding Goodwill, is 4.8 years. diveStitureS2006As discussed below, the company divested its Personal Computing business to Lenovo Group Limited (Lenovo) in 2005. A portion of the total consideration received in that transaction included Lenovo equity. This equity was subject to specific lock-up provisions. In the second quarter of 2006, the company and Lenovo agreed to revise these restrictions such that the company can now fully divest its shares in Lenovo after November 1, 2007 versus the prior lock-up expiration date of May 1, 2008. As a result of the change in the lock-up restrictions, the company now considers all Lenovo shares to be within the scope of SFAS No. 115 and has classified them as available-for-sale. On August 4, 2006, the company signed an agreement with a financial institution to establish a structure, with the institution acting as agent, to facilitate the company’s disposition of Lenovo shares from time to time, after their release from the lock-up provisions. At December 31, 2006, the company had not divested any shares through the financial institution. (See note X, “Subsequent Events,” on page 115).  For the year ended December 31, 2006, the company recorded a pre-tax gain of $45 million related to the divestiture. This amount was primarily due to a reversal of an indemnity provision recorded at the closing. In addition, at December 31, 2006, the deferred income balance related to services arrangements entered into at the closing date, as discussed on page 78, was $85 million.2005On April 30, 2005 (closing date), the company completed the divestiture of its Personal Computing business to Lenovo, a publicly traded company on the Hong Kong Stock Exchange. The total consideration that the company agreed to on December 7, 2004 (the date the definitive agreement was signed) was $1,750 million which included $650 million in cash, $600 million in Lenovo equity (valued at the December 6, 2004 closing price) and the transfer of approximately $500 million of net liabilities. At the closing date, total consideration was valued at $1,725 million, comprised of: $650 million in cash, $542 million in Lenovo equity and $533 million in net liabilities transferred. Transaction related expenses and provisions were $628 million, resulting in a net pre-tax gain of $1,097 million which was recorded in Other (income) and expense in the Consolidated Statement of Earnings in the second quarter of 2005. In addition, the company paid Lenovo $138 million in cash primarily to assume additional liabilities outside the scope of the original agreement. This transaction had no impact on Income from Continuing Operations. Total net cash proceeds, less the deposit received at the end of 2004 for $25 million, related to these transactions were $487 million.  The equity received at the closing date represented 9.9 percent of ordinary voting shares and 18.9 percent of total ownership in Lenovo. Subsequent to the closing date, Lenovo’s capital structure changed due to new third-party investments. As a result, the company’s equity at June 30, 2005 represented 9.9 percent of ordinary voting shares and 17.05 percent of total ownership in Lenovo. The equity securities have been accounted for under the cost method of accounting. The equity is subject to specific lock-up provisions that restrict the company from divesting the securities. These restrictions apply to specific equity tranches and expire over a three-year period from the closing date. The Lenovo equity was valued at $542 million at the closing date and is recorded in Investments and sundry assets in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position. In addition, the company recorded an equity deferral of $112 million to reflect the value of the lock-up provisions. This deferral was recorded as a contrainvestment in Investments and sundry assets. As part of the agreements with Lenovo, the company will provide certain services. These services include marketing support, information technology, human resources support and learning services. These service arrangements are primarily for periods of three years or less and can be terminated earlier by Lenovo. The company estimated the fair value of these service arrangements, and, as a result, has deferred $262 million of the transaction gain. This amount will be recorded as revenue, primarily in the company’s Global Services segments, as services are provided to Lenovo. The deferred amount was recorded in deferred income in Other liabilities in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position. The company also recorded direct and incremental expenses and related provisions of $254 million associated with the divestiture, consisting of $74 million for certain indemnities; $64 million for employee-related charges; $40 million in real estate and information technology costs; $20 million in transaction expenses; $22 million of goodwill; and $34 million in other expenses. The company, as part of the agreement, retained the right and will be given a preference to provide maintenance, warranty and financing services to Lenovo. The company retained the warranty liability for all Personal Computing business products sold prior to the closing date. Lenovo will have the right to use certain IBM trademarks under a Trademark License Agreement for a term of five years. In addition, the company entered into an arm’s-length supply agreement with Lenovo for a term of five years, designed to provide the company with computers for its internal use. In the third quarter of 2005, as a result of the third-party investments described previously, Lenovo was required to repurchase the first equity tranche at a specified share price. The equity repurchase consolidated Statements ......................................................... 56 notes .....................................................................................62 A-G.......................................................................................... 62. A..Significant.Accounting.Policies........................................ 62 . B..Accounting.Changes........................................................ 71. C..Acquisitions/Divestitures.................................................. 73 . D..Financial.Instruments.(excluding.derivatives)................. 78. E..Inventories........................................................................ 79. F..Financing.Receivables...................................................... 79. G..Plant,.Rental.Machines.and.Other.Property.................... 79H-M......................................................................................... 80 N-S.......................................................................................... 88T-X........................................................................................... 96resulted in the receipt of $152 million of cash and a pre-tax gain of $17 million. As a result of this transaction, the company’s equity in Lenovo at September 30, 2005 represented 9.9 percent of ordinary voting shares and 14.88 percent of total ownership.  Also, in the second half of the year, the company received an additional $23 million of cash from Lenovo related to working capital adjustments, net of expenses related to employee matters. These transactions were consistent with the company’s previous estimates. Overall, including the gain on the equity sale recorded in the third quarter, the company recorded an additional net pre-tax gain of $11 million; the resulting net pre-tax gain for the year ending December 31, 2005 is $1,108 million. 	In addition, at December 31, 2005, the deferred income balance re- lated to the services arrangements discussed previously is $169 million.d. Financial inStrumentS  (excluding derivativeS)Fair value oF Financial inStrumentScash and cash equivalents, marketable securities and derivative financial instruments are recognized and measured at fair value in the company’s financial statements. Notes and other accounts receivable and other investments are financial assets with carrying values that approximate fair value. Accounts payable, other accrued expenses and short-term debt are financial liabilities with carrying values that approximate fair value. The carrying amount of long-term debt is approximately $13.8 billion and $15.4 billion and the estimated fair value is $16.2 billion and $16.7 billion at December 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively. In the absence of quoted prices in active markets, considerable judgment is required in developing estimates of fair value. Estimates are not necessarily indicative of the amounts the company could realize in a current market transaction. The following methods and assumptions were used to estimate fair values:loans and Financing receivablesEstimates of fair value are based on discounted future cash flows using current interest rates offered for similar loans to clients with similar credit ratings for the same remaining maturities. restricted SecuritiesThe fair value of restricted securities was estimated based on a quoted price for an identical unrestricted security, adjusted to reflect the effect of the restriction.long-term debtFor publicly-traded debt, estimates of fair value are based on market prices. For other debt, fair value is estimated based on rates currently available to the company for debt with similar terms and remaining maturities. marketable SecuritieS*the following table summarizes the company’s marketable securities, all of which are considered available-for-sale, and alliance investments. 		(Dollars in millions)	 	 	 	 faiR ValuEat DECEMBER 31:		2006 2005Marketable securities—current:Auction rate securities 	and other obligations 	 $2,634 $1,118Marketable securities—non-current:**Time deposits and other obligations 	 $  359 $??? ?2Non-U.S. government securities and  	other fixed-term obligations 	 2?13Total 	 $  361 $?? ?15Non-equity method alliance investments** $  628 $? ?558*		Gross	unrealized	gains	(before	taxes)	on	marketable	securities	were	$19	million	and	$31	million	at	December	31,	2006	and	2005,	respectively.	Gross	unrealized	gains	(before	taxes)	on	alliance	investments	were	$178	million	and	$79	million	at	December	31,	2006	and	2005,	respectively.	Gross	unrealized	losses	(before	taxes)	on	marketable	securities	and	alliance	investments	were	immaterial	to	the	Consolidated	Financial	Statements	at	December	31,	2006	and	2005.	See	note	N,	“Stockholders’	Equity	Activity,”	on	page	88	for	net	change	in	unrealized	gains		and	losses	on	marketable	securities.	**		Included	within	Investments	and	sundry	assets	in	the	Consolidated	Statement	of	Financial	Position.	See	note	H,	“Investments	and	Sundry	Assets,”	on	page	80.e. inventorieS		(Dollars in millions)at DECEMBER 31:		2006 2005Finished goods 	 $  506?$? ?902Work in process and raw materials 	 2,304?1,939Total 	 $2,810 $2,841F. Financing receivableS		(Dollars in millions)at DECEMBER 31:		2006 2005Short-term:Net investment in sales-type leases 	 $ 4,590?$? 4,435Commercial financing receivables 	 5,814?5,053Client loan receivables 	 4,196?3,752Installment payment receivables 	 496 510Total 	 $15,095?$13,750Long-term:Net investment in sales-type leases 	 $ 5,471?$? 5,393Commercial financing receivables 	 32?17Client loan receivables 	 4,214 3,901Installment payment receivables 	 351 317Total 	 $10,068 $? 9,628 Net investment in sales-type leases is for leases that relate principally to the company’s equipment and are for terms ranging from two to seven years. Net investment in sales-type leases includes unguaranteed residual values of $854 million and $792 million at December 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively, and is reflected net of unearned income of $1,005 million and $939 million and of allowance for uncollectible accounts of $135 million and $176 million at those dates, respectively. Scheduled maturities of minimum lease payments outstanding at December 31, 2006, expressed as a percentage of the total, are approximately: 2007, 44 percent; 2008, 28 percent; 2009, 17 percent; 2010, 7 percent; and 2011 and beyond, 4 percent. Commercial financing receivables arise primarily from inventory and accounts receivable financing for dealers and remarketers of IBM and non-IBM products. Payment terms for inventory and accounts receivable financing generally range from 30 to 90 days.  Client loan receivables relate to loans that are provided by Global Financing primarily to the company’s clients to finance the purchase of the company’s software and services. Separate contractual relationships on these financing arrangements are for terms ranging from two to seven years. Each financing contract is priced independently at competitive market rates. The company has a history of enforcing the terms of these separate financing agreements. The company did not have financing receivables held for sale as of December 31, 2006 and 2005. g. Plant, rental machineS and  other ProPerty		(Dollars in millions)at DECEMBER 31:		2006 2005Land and land improvements 	?$   693?$?? ?684Buildings and building improvements 	 8,243?8,312Plant, laboratory and office equipment ?23,907?21,760 	   	 32,843?30,756Less: Accumulated depreciation 	?20,441?18,600Plant and other property—net 	 12,401 12,156Rental machines 	 3,678 3,505Less: Accumulated depreciation 	 1,640 1,905Rental machines—net 	 2,038?1,600Total—net 	 $14,440 $13,756
h. inveStmentS and Sundry aSSetS		(Dollars in millions)at DECEMBER 31:		2006 2005*Deferred taxes 	 $3,880?$1,832Deferred transition and set up costs  	  	and other deferred arrangements** 	  1,232?804Alliance investments: 	Equity method 	 416?456 	Non-equity method 	 628?558Long-term deposits 	 228?200Derivatives—non-current+ 	 213?160Marketable securities 	 361?15Other assets 	 1,423?949Total 	 $8,381 $4,974*	Reclassified	to	conform	with	2006	presentation.**		Deferred	transition	and	set	up	costs	and	other	deferred	arrangements	are	related	to	Global	Services	client	arrangements.	Also	see	note	A,	“Significant	Accounting	Policies,”	on	page	65	for	additional	information.	+		See	note	L,	“Derivatives	and	Hedging	Transactions,”	on	pages	83	through	86		for	the	fair	value	of	all	derivatives	reported	in	the	Consolidated	Statement	of	Financial	Position.	i. intangible aSSetS  including goodwillThe following table details the company’s intangible asset balances by major asset class:		(Dollars in millions)		At	December	31,	2006	 	 Gross		Net  	 cArryiNG	AccumulAteD	cArryiNGintangiBlE assEt Class AmouNt	AmortizAtioN	AmouNtCapitalized software $1,871?$? ?(837)?$1,034Client-related 1,038?(424)?614Completed technology 500?(128)?372Strategic alliances 104?(89)?15Patents/trademarks 112?(29)?83Other* 264?(179)?84Total $3,888?$(1,686)?$2,202*		Other	intangibles	are	primarily	acquired	proprietary	and	nonproprietary	business	processes,	methodologies	and	systems,	and	impacts	from	currency	translation.(Dollars in millions)	at DECEMBER 31, 2005	 	 	 gRoss  nEt   	 	 CaRRying aCCuMulatED CaRRyingintangiBlE assEt Class aMount aMoRtization aMount Capitalized software $1,805?$? ?(802)?$1,003Client-related 910?(490)?420Completed technology 383?(270)?113Strategic alliances 104?(68)?36Patents/trademarks 32?(17)?15Other* 218?(142)?76Total $3,452?$(1,789)?$1,663*		Other	intangibles	are	primarily	acquired	proprietary	and	nonproprietary	business	processes,	methodologies	and	systems,	and	impacts	from	currency	translation.The company amortizes intangible assets over their estimated useful lives unless such lives are deemed indefinite. Amortizable intangible assets are tested for impairment based on undiscounted cash flows, and, if impaired, written down to fair value based on either discounted cash flows or appraised values. Intangible assets with indefinite lives are tested annually for impairment and written down to fair value as required. No impairment of intangible assets has been identified during any of the periods presented. The net carrying amount of intangible assets increased by $539 million for the year ended December 31, 2006, primarily due to acquired intangibles as a result of the company’s acquisitions.  Total amortization was $1,076 million and $1,041 million for the 
(Dollars in millions) 	CaPitalizED  aCquiRED  	softwaRE intangiBlEs total$658?$346?$1,005315?279?59461?222?283—?142?142—?98?98consolidated Statements ......................................................... 56 notes .....................................................................................62 A-G.......................................................................................... 62H-M......................................................................................... 80
years ended December 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively. The aggregate amortization expense for acquired intangibles (excluding capitalized software) was $316 million and $367 million for the years ended December 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively. In addition, in 2006 the company retired $1,186 million of fully amortized intangible assets, impacting both the gross carrying amount and accumulated amortization for this amount. The future amortization expense for each of the five succeeding years relating to all intangible assets that are currently recorded in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position is estimated to be the following at December 31, 2006:goodwillThe changes in the carrying amount of goodwill, by reportable segment, for the year ended December 31, 2006, are as follows:(Dollars in millions)  	      FoREign    	  BAlAnCE  PuRChAsE  CuRREnCy BAlAnCE   	  JAnuARy 1, gooDwill PRiCE  TRAnslATion DECEMBER 31, sEgMEnT  2006  ADDiTions ADJusTMEnTs DivEsTiTuREs ADJusTMEnTs 2006Global Business Services $3,588	$		122		$	(16)	$—	$117	$ 3,811Global Technology Services 1,530	1,067	(97)	—	200	2,700Systems and Technology Group 254	—	(40)	—		—	214Software 4,069	2,223	(171)	—	7	6,129Total		$9,441	$3,412	$(323)	$—	$324	$12,854
J. seCuritizatioN oF reCeivablesthe company periodically sells receivables through the securitization of trade receivables, loans and leases. The company retains servicing rights in the securitized receivables for which it receives a servicing fee. Any gain or loss incurred as a result of such sales is recognized in the period in which the sale occurs. On July 28, 2006, the company terminated its committed trade receivables securitization facility. This facility was established in 2004 and provided the company with securitization capability up to $0.5 billion. The facility was put in place to provide backup liquidity accessible on a three-day notice. During 2005, the company securitized $6.3 million of trade receivables and retained the servicing responsibilities for which it received a servicing fee. In 2005, both the pre-tax loss on the sale of receivables and the servicing fees received were insignificant. The facility was terminated in 2006 as the company determined that it had sufficient liquidity and alternative funding sources. No trade receivables were securitized in 2006 under this facility prior to the closure, nor did the company have any amounts outstanding under this facility at December 31, 2005.  The company utilizes certain of its financing receivables as collateral for non-recourse borrowings. Financing receivables pledged as collateral for borrowings were $304 million and $318 million at December 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively. These borrowings are included in note K, “Borrowings,” on page 82.K. borrowiNgsshort-term debt(Dollars in millions)AT DECEMBER 31: 	 2006 2005Commercial paper 	 $3,779	$		858Short-term loans 	 2,355 3,370Long-term debt—current maturities 	 2,768 2,988Total		$8,902	$7,216The weighted-average interest rates for commercial paper at December 31, 2006 and 2005, were 5.3 percent and 4.3 percent, respectively. The weighted-average interest rates for short-term loans were 3.0 percent and 2.2 percent at December 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively. 
loNg-term debtpre-swap borrowing(Dollars in millions)AT DECEMBER 31: 	    MATuRiTiEs 2006 2005U.S. Dollars: Debentures:5.875%    2032	$   600	$			6006.22%     2027	469	4696.5% 				2028	313	3137.0%     2025	600	6007.0%     2045	150	1507.125%    2096	850	8507.5%     2013	532	5328.375%    2019	750	7503.43% convertible note*    2007	188	238Notes: 5.9% average    2007–2009	1,100	2,713Medium-term note program: 4.7% average    2007–2014	5,361	5,620Other: 3.8% average**    2007–2013	2,029	1,833 	 	 	     12,942	14,668Other currencies (average interest rate at   	December 31, 2006, in parentheses):Euros (3.4%)    2007–2011	2,234	1,280Japanese yen (1.8%)    2010–2014	796	1,450Canadian dollars (6.3%)    2011–2013	6	5Swiss francs (1.5%)    2008	410	378Other (5.4%)    2007–2011	60	406 	 	 	     16,448	18,187Less: Net unamortized discount     64	45Add: SFAS No. 133 fair value adjustment+     164	271 	 	 	     16,548	18,413Less: Current maturities 				2,768	2,988Total						$13,780	$15,425*		As	part	of	the	company’s	2002	acquisition	of	PricewaterhouseCoopers’	Global	Business	Consulting	and	Technology	Services	Unit	(PwCC),	the	company	issued	convertible	notes	bearing	interest	at	a	stated	rate	of	3.43	percent	with	a	face	value	of	approximately	$328	million	to	certain	of	the	acquired	PwCC	partners.	The	notes	are	convertible	into	4,764,543	shares	of	IBM	common	stock	at	the	option	of	the	holders	at	any	time	based	on	a	fixed	conversion	price	of	$68.81	per	share	of	the	company’s	common	stock.	As	of	December	31,	2006,	a	total	of	2,053,267	shares	had	been	issued	under	this	provision.**		Includes	$304	million	and	$318	million	of	debt	collateralized	by	financing	receivables	at	December	31,	2006	and	2005,	respectively.	See	note	J,	“Securitization	of	Receivables,”	on	page	81	for	further	details.+		In	accordance	with	the	requirements	of	SFAS	No.	133,	the	portion	of	the	company’s	fixed	rate	debt	obligations	that	is	hedged	is	reflected	in	the	Consolidated	Statement	of	Financial	Position	as	an	amount	equal	to	the	sum	of	the	debt’s	carrying	value	plus	an	SFAS	No.	133	fair	value	adjustment	representing	changes	in	the	fair	value	of	the	hedged	debt	obligations	attributable	to	movements	in	benchmark	interest	rates.	Consolidated statements ......................................................... 56Notes .....................................................................................62 A-G.......................................................................................... 62H-M......................................................................................... 80
		post-swap borrowiNg (loNg-term debt, iNCludiNg CurreNt portioN)(Dollars in millions)  	 	 	 AT DECEMBER 31: 	 	 	  2006 2005Amount	AverAge	rAte AMounT AvERAgE RATEFixed-rate debt 	 	 $ 8,758 5.25% 	$	8,099	4.84Floating-rate debt* 	 	 7,790 6.30% 10,314	4.82Total				$16,548		$18,413 %%*		Includes	$6,616	million	in	2006	and	$7,811	million	in	2005	of	notional	long-term	interest	rate	swaps	that	effectively	convert	the	fixed-rate	debt	into	floating-rate	debt.	(See	note	L,	“Derivatives	and	Hedging	Transactions,”	on	pages	83	through	86).	Pre-swap annual contractual maturities of long-term debt outstanding at December 31, 2006, are as follows: (Dollars in millions)2007  	 	 $	2,8062008  	 	 1,5592009  	 	 2,2512010  	 	 2,8812011  	 	 1,0642012 and beyond 	 	 5,887Total 	 	 $16,448iNterest oN debt(Dollars in millions)FoR ThE yEAR EnDED DECEMBER 31: 2006 2005 2004Cost of Global Financing $692	$525	$428Interest expense 278	220	139Interest capitalized 11	16	4Total	interest	on	debt	$981 $761	$571Refer to the related discussion on page 113 in note W, “Segment Information,” for total interest expense of the Global Financing segment. See note L, “Derivatives and Hedging Transactions,” on pages 83 through 86 for a discussion of the use of currency and interest rate swaps in the company’s debt risk management program. liNes oF Crediton June 28, 2006, the company entered into a new five-year $10 billion Credit agreement (the “Credit agreement”) with Jpmorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as Administrative Agent, and Citibank, N.A., as Syndication Agent replacing the company’s existing five-year $10 billion Credit Agreement (the “Existing Agreement”) dated May 27, 2004. The Existing Agreement was not otherwise due to expire until May 27, 2009. The total expense recorded by the company related to these facilities was $7.4 million in 2006 and $8.9 million in both 2005 and 2004. The new Credit Agreement permits the company and its Subsidiary Borrowers to borrow up to $10 billion on a revolving basis. Borrowings of the Subsidiary Borrowers will be unconditionally backed by the company. The company may also, upon the agreement of either existing Lenders, or of the additional banks not currently party to the Credit Agreement, increase the commitments under the Credit Agreement up to an additional $2.0 billion. Subject to certain terms of the Credit Agreement, the company and Subsidiary Borrowers may borrow, prepay and reborrow amounts under the Credit Agreement at any time during the Credit Agreement. Interest rates on borrowings under the Credit Agreement will be based on prevailing market interest rates, as further described in the Credit Agreement. The Credit Agreement contains customary representations and warranties, covenants, events of default, and indemnification provisions. The company believes that circumstances that might give rise to breach of these covenants or an event of default, as specified in the Credit Agreement are remote. The company’s other lines of credit, most of which are uncommitted, totaled $9,429 million and $10,057 million at December 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively. Interest rates and other terms of borrowing under these lines of credit vary from country to country, depending on local market conditions.(Dollars in millions)AT DECEMBER 31:		2006 2005Unused lines: 	From the committed  	 global credit facility 	$ 9,875	$	9,913 	From other committed and  	 uncommitted lines 	 7,215	6,781Total	unused	lines	of	credit		$17,090 $16,694l. derivatives aNd hedgiNg traNsaCtioNsthe company operates in multiple functional currencies and is a significant lender and borrower in the global markets. In the normal course of business, the company is exposed to the impact of interest rate changes and foreign currency fluctuations, and to a lesser extent equity price changes and client credit risk. The company limits these risks by following established risk management policies and procedures, including the use of derivatives, and, where cost-effective, financing with debt in the currencies in which assets are denominated. For interest rate exposures, derivatives are used to align rate movements between the interest rates associated with the company’s lease and other financial assets and the interest rates associated with its financing debt. Derivatives are also used to manage the related cost of debt. For foreign currency exposures, derivatives are used to limit the effects of foreign exchange rate fluctuations on financial results. As a result of the company’s use of derivative instruments, the company is exposed to the risk that counterparties to derivative contracts will fail to meet their contractual obligations. To mitigate the counterparty credit risk, the company has a policy of only entering into contracts with carefully selected major financial institutions based upon their credit ratings and other factors, and maintains strict dollar and term limits that correspond to the institution’s credit rating. The company’s established policies and procedures for mitigating credit risk on principal transactions include reviewing and establishing limits for credit exposure and continually assessing the creditworthiness of counterparties. Master agreements with counterparties include master netting arrangements as further mitigation of credit exposure to counterparties. These arrangements permit the company to net amounts due from the company to a counterparty with amounts due to the company from a counterparty reducing the maximum loss from credit risk in the event of counterparty default. In its hedging programs, the company uses forward contracts, futures contracts, interest-rate swaps, currency swaps and options depending upon the underlying exposure. The company does not use derivatives for trading or speculative purposes, nor is it a party to leveraged derivatives. 	A brief description of the major hedging programs follows.debt risK maNagemeNtthe company issues debt in the global capital markets, principally to fund its financing lease and loan portfolio. Access to cost-effective financing can result in interest rate and/or currency mismatches with the underlying assets. To manage these mismatches and to reduce overall interest cost, the company uses interest-rate swaps to convert specific fixed-rate debt issuances into variable-rate debt (i.e., fair value hedges) and to convert specific variable-rate debt issuances into fixed-rate debt (i.e., cash flow hedges). The resulting cost of funds is lower than that which would have been available if debt with matching characteristics was issued directly. At December 31, 2006, the weighted-average remaining maturity of all swaps in the debt risk management program was approximately three years, as compared to approximately four years at December 31, 2005.loNg-term iNvestmeNts iN ForeigN  subsidiaries (Net iNvestmeNt)a significant portion of the company’s foreign currency denominated debt portfolio is designated as a hedge of net investment to reduce the volatility in stockholders’ equity caused by changes in foreign currency exchange rates in the functional currency of major foreign subsidiaries with respect to the U.S. dollar. The company also uses currency swaps and foreign exchange forward contracts for this risk management purpose. The currency effects of these hedges (approximately $350 million losses in 2006, $570 million gains in 2005 and $156 million losses in 2004, net of tax) were reflected in the Accumulated gains and (losses) not affecting retained earnings section of the Consolidated Statement of Stockholders’ Equity, thereby offsetting a portion of the translation adjustment of the applicable foreign subsidiaries’ net assets. aNtiCipated royalties aNd  Cost traNsaCtioNsthe company’s operations generate significant nonfunctional currency, third-party vendor payments and intercompany payments for royalties and goods and services among the company’s non-U.S. subsidiaries and with the parent company. In anticipation of these foreign currency cash flows and in view of the volatility of the currency markets, the company selectively employs foreign exchange forward and option contracts to manage its currency risk. Currently, these cash flow hedges have maturities of one year or less, however, from time to time can extend beyond one year commensurate with the underlying hedged anticipated cash flows. At December 31, 2006, the weightedaverage remaining maturity of these derivative instruments was 216 days, as compared to 240 days at December 31, 2005. aNtiCipated Commodity  purChase traNsaCtioNsin connection with the purchase of electricity for anticipated manufacturing requirements, the company selectively employs forward contracts to manage its price risk. Currently, these cash flow hedges have maturities of one year or less, however, from time to time 
Consolidated statements ......................................................... 56Notes .....................................................................................62 A-G.......................................................................................... 62H-M......................................................................................... 80
could extend beyond one year commensurate with the underlying hedged anticipated cash flows. At December 31, 2006, the weightedaverage remaining maturity of these derivative instruments was approximately seven months. This risk management program was implemented in 2006.
subsidiary Cash aNd ForeigN CurreNCy  asset/liability maNagemeNtthe company uses its global treasury Centers to manage the cash of its subsidiaries. These centers principally use currency swaps to convert cash flows in a cost-effective manner. In addition, the company uses foreign exchange forward contracts to economically hedge, on a net basis, the foreign currency exposure of a portion of the company’s nonfunctional currency assets and liabilities. The terms of these forward and swap contracts are generally less than one year. The changes in the fair values of these contracts and of the underlying hedged exposures are generally offsetting and are recorded in Other (income) and expense in the Consolidated Statement of Earnings. equity risK maNagemeNtrisK maNagemeNt program(Dollars in millions)  	 	   	 	 	 	 	 	 	nET 	non-hEDgE/ AT DECEMBER 31, 2006 	 	 	 	FAiR vAluE 	CAsh Flow 	invEsTMEnT 	oThERDerivatives—net asset/(liability): 	Debt risk management 	 	 $(139)	$110	$					—	$(96) 	Long-term investments in foreign subsidiaries (“net investments”)  —	—	(165)	— 	Anticipated royalties and cost transactions 	 	 —	(84)	—	— 	Anticipated commodity purchase transactions 	 	 —	(2)	—	— 	Subsidiary cash and foreign currency asset/liability management 	 —	—	—	(14) 	Equity risk management 	 	 —	—	—	40 	Other derivatives 	 	 —	—	—	10Total derivatives 	 	 (139)(a) 24(b) (165)(c) (60)Debt: 	Long-term investments in foreign subsidiaries (“net investments”)  —	—	(2,529)(e)	—Total				$(139)	$	24	$(2,694)	$(60)(d)(a)  Comprises	assets	of	$1	million	and	liabilities	of	$140	million.	(b)Comprises 	assets	of	$293	million	and	liabilities	of	$269	million.	(c) Comprises	assets	of	$42	million	and	liabilities	of	$207	million.	(d) Comprises	assets	of	$74	million	and	liabilities	of	$134	million.	(e) Represents	foreign	currency	denominated	debt	formally	designated	as	a	hedge	of	net	investment.	the company is exposed to equity price changes related to certain obligations to employees. These equity exposures are primarily related to market price movements in certain broad equity market indices and in the company’s common stock. Changes in the overall value of these employee compensation obligations are recorded in SG&A expense in the Consolidated Statement of Earnings. Although not designated as accounting hedges, the company utilizes equity derivatives, including equity swaps and futures, to economically hedge the exposures related to its employee compensation obligations. The derivatives are linked to the total return on certain broad equity market indices or the total return on the company’s common stock. They are recorded at fair value with gains or losses reported in SG&A expense in the Consolidated Statement of Earnings.other derivativesthe company holds warrants in connection with certain investments that are deemed derivatives because they contain net share or net cash settlement provisions. The company records the changes in the fair value of these warrants in Other (income) and expense in the Consolidated Statement of Earnings. The company is exposed to a potential loss if a client fails to pay amounts due under contractual terms (“credit risk”). In 2003, the company began utilizing credit default swaps to economically hedge certain credit exposures. These derivatives have terms of two years or less. The swaps are recorded at fair value with gains and losses reported in Other (income) and expense in the Consolidated Statement of Earnings. To economically hedge its foreign exchange exposure not covered by any of the above programs, the company also uses certain forward and option contracts that are not designated in accounting hedging relationships. These derivatives are recorded at fair value with gains and losses reported in Other (income) and expense in the Consolidated Statement of Earnings. The following tables summarize the net fair value of the company’s derivative and other risk management instruments at December 31, 2006 and 2005 (included in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position). 
(Dollars in millions)  	 	   	 	 	 	 	 	 	nET 	non-hEDgE/ AT DECEMBER 31, 2005 	 	 	 	FAiR vAluE 	CAsh Flow 	invEsTMEnT 	oThERDerivatives—net asset/(liability): 	Debt risk management 	 	 $(116)	$	(79)	$					—	$(109) 	Long-term investments in foreign subsidiaries (“net investments”)  —	—	120	— 	Anticipated royalties and cost transactions 	 	 —	324	—	— 	Subsidiary cash and foreign currency asset/liability management 	 —	—	—	 	Equity risk management 	 	—	—	—	17 	Other derivatives 	 	 —	—	—	4Total derivatives 	 	 (116)(a)	245(b)	120(c)	(92)Debt: 	Long-term investments in foreign subsidiaries (“net investments”)  —	—	(2,027)(e)	—Total				$(116)	$245	$(1,907)	$	(92)(4)(d)(a) Comprises	assets	of	$34	million	and	liabilities	of	$150	million.	(b) Comprises	assets	of	$363	million	and	liabilities	of	$118	million.	(c) Comprises	assets	of	$150	million	and	liabilities	of	$30	million.	(d) Comprises	assets	of	$25	million	and	liabilities	of	$117	million.	(e) Represents	foreign	currency	denominated	debt	formally	designated	as	a	hedge	of	net	investment.	(Dollars in millions, net of tax) 	  DEBiT/(CREDiTDecember 31, 2003 	  	$	454Net losses reclassified into earnings  	from equity during 2004 	  	(463)Changes in fair value of derivatives in 2004  	662December 31, 2004 	  	653Net losses reclassified into earnings from  	equity during 2005 	  	(104)Changes in fair value of derivatives in 2005  	(787)December 31, 2005 	  	(238)Net gains reclassified into earnings  	from equity during 2006 	  	205Changes in fair value of derivatives in 2006  	138December	31,	2006 	  	$	104)aCCumulated derivative gaiNs or lossesat december 31, 2006, in connection with its cash flow hedges of anticipated royalties, and cost and commodity purchase transactions, the company recorded losses of $49 million, net of tax, in Accumulated gains and (losses) not affecting retained earnings. This amount is expected to be reclassified to net income within the next year, providing an offsetting economic impact against the underlying anticipated transactions. At December 31, 2006, losses of approximately $55 million, net of tax, were recorded in Accumulated gains and (losses) not affecting retained earnings in connection with cash flow hedges of the company’s borrowings. Of this amount $10 million is expected to be reclassified to net income within the next year providing an offsetting economic impact against the underlying transactions. The following table summarizes activity in the Accumulated gains and (losses) not affecting retained earnings section of the Consolidated Statement of Stockholders’ Equity related to all derivatives classified as cash flow hedges:For the years ending December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004, there were no significant gains or losses recognized in earnings representing hedge ineffectiveness or excluded from the assessment of hedge effectiveness (for fair value hedges and cash flow hedges), or associated with an underlying exposure that did not or was not expected to occur Consolidated statements ......................................................... 56 (for cash flow hedges); nor are there any anticipated in the normal course of business.Notes .....................................................................................62 A-G.......................................................................................... 62H-M......................................................................................... 80(Dollars in millions)AT DECEMBER 31:		2006 2005Deferred income* 	 $2,502	$2,437Deferred taxes 	 665	1,616Executive compensation accruals 	 942	1,023Restructuring actions 	 640	733Workforce reductions 	 435	434Disability benefits 	 626 420Derivatives liabilities 	 235 314Non-current warranty accruals 	 176 255Environmental accruals 	 221 226Other 	 861 836Total		$7,304	$8,294*		Deferred	income	amounts	are	primarily	related	to	hardware	and	software	longterm	maintenance	agreements.	Also	see	note	A,	“Significant	Accounting	Policies,”		on	pages	62	to	71	for	additional	information.m. other liabilities	 	In response to changing business needs, the company periodically takes workforce reduction actions to improve productivity, cost com-
(Dollars in millions)  	    liABiliTy   LiAbiLity   	     As oF  oThER As	of  	    DEC. 31, 2005 PAyMEnTs ADJusTMEnTs* Dec.	31,	2006Current: 	Workforce   $461	$(366)	$		67	$163 	Space   62	(91)	117	88 	Other   6	—	—	6Total	Current			$529	$(457)	$	184 $257Non-current: 	Workforce   $497	$			—	$		34	$531 	Space   236	—	(127)	109Total	Non-current			$733	$			—	$		(93) $640*		The	Other	Adjustments	column	in	the	table	above	principally	includes	the	reclassification	of	non-current	to	current	and	foreign	currency	translation	adjustments.	In	addition,	during	the	year	ended	December	31,	2006,	net	adjustments	were	recorded	to	decrease	previously	recorded	liabilities	for	changes	in	the	estimated	cost	of	employee	terminations	and	vacant	space	for	the	2002	actions	($25	million),	the	second-quarter	2005	actions	($35	million),	offset	by	increases	for	the	actions	taken	prior	to	1994	($13	million).	Of	the	$47	million	of	net	reductions	recorded	during	the	year	ended	December	31,	2006,	$18	million	($7	million	when	offset	by	$11	million	in	accretion	expense)	was	included	in	SG&A	expense	and	$11	million	($7	million	when	offset	by	$4	million	in	accretion	expense)	was	recorded	in	Other	(income)	and	expense.The workforce accruals primarily relate to the company’s Global Services business. The remaining liability relates to terminated employees who are no longer working for the company who were granted annual payments to supplement their incomes in certain countries. Depending on the individual country’s legal requirements, these required payments will continue until the former employee begins receiving pension benefits or dies. Included in the December 31, 2006 workforce accruals above is $46 million associated with the HDD divestiture discussed in note A, “Significant Accounting Policies,” on page 62. The space accruals are for ongoing obligations to pay rent for vacant space that could not be sublet or space that was sublet at rates lower than the committed lease arrangement. The length of these obligations varies by lease with the longest extending through 2016. Other accruals are primarily the remaining liabilities (other than workforce or space) associated with the HDD divestiture. petitiveness and to rebalance skills. The non-current contractually obligated future payments associated with these activities are reflected in the Workforce reductions caption in the previous table.  In addition, the company executed certain special actions as follows: (1) the second quarter of 2005 (discussed in note R, “2005 Actions,” on pages 93 and 94), (2) the second quarter of 2002 associated with the Microelectronics Division and rebalancing of both the company’s workforce and leased space resources, (3) the fourth quarter of 2002 associated with the acquisition of the PricewaterhouseCoopers consulting business, (4) the 2002 actions associated with the HDD business for reductions in workforce, manufacturing capacity and space, (5) the actions taken in 1999, and (6) the actions that took place prior to 1994.  The following table provides a roll forward of the current and noncurrent liabilities associated with these special actions. The current liabilities presented in the table are included in Other accrued expenses and liabilities in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position.  The company employs extensive internal environmental protection programs that primarily are preventive in nature. The company also participates in environmental assessments and cleanups at a number of locations, including operating facilities, previously owned facilities and Superfund sites. The company’s maximum exposure for all environmental liabilities cannot be estimated and no amounts have been recorded for non-ARO environmental liabilities that are not probable or estimable. The total amounts accrued for non-ARO environmental liabilities, including amounts classified as current in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position, that do not reflect actual or anticipated insurance recoveries, were $252 million and $254 million at December 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively. Estimated environmental costs are not expected to materially affect the consolidated financial position or consolidated results of the company’s operations in future periods. However, estimates of future costs are subject to change due to protracted cleanup periods and changing environmental remediation regulations.
N. stoCKholders’ equity aCtivitythe authorized capital stock of ibm consists of 4,687,500,000 shares of common stock, $.20 par value, of which 1,506,482,612 shares were outstanding at December 31, 2006 and 150,000,000 shares of preferred stock, $.01 par value, none of which were outstanding at December 31, 2006. stoCK repurChasesaCCumulated gaiNs aNd (losses) Not aFFeCtiNg retaiNed earNiNgs (Net oF tax)(Dollars in millions)  	 	 	nET 	 	 	PRioR sERviCE 	nET 	ACCuMulATED   	 	 	unREAlizED 	FoREign 	MiniMuM 	CosTs, nET gAins/ 	unREAlizED 	gAins/(lossEs)   	 	 	gAins/(lossEs) 	CuRREnCy 	PEnsion 	(lossEs) AnD 	gAins on 	noT AFFECTing   	 	 	on CAsh Flow 	TRAnslATion 	liABiliTy 	 TRAnsiTion AssETs/ 	MARkETABlE 	RETAinED   	 	 hEDgE DERivATivEs 	ADJusTMEnTs** 	ADJusTMEnTs* 	(oBligATions)* 	sECuRiTiEs 	EARningsDecember 31, 2004  $(653)	$	3,061	$(4,519)	$					—	$			50	$(2,061)Change for period 891	(1,153) 290	—	17	45December 31, 2005 238	1,908 (4,229)	—	67	(2,016)Change for period (342)	1,020 1,881	—	53	2,613Adoption of SFAS No. 158 —	— 2,348	(11,846)	—	(9,498)December	31,	2006 $(104) $ 2,929 $    — $(11,846) $119 $(8,901)*	2006	activity	relates	to	adoption	of	SFAS	No.	158,	see	note	V,	“Retirement-Related	Benefits,”	on	pages	100	to	111	for	additional	information.**	Foreign	currency	translation	adjustments	are	presented	gross	with	associated	hedges	shown	net	of		tax.	Net ChaNge iN uNrealized gaiNs oN marKetable seCurities (Net oF tax)(Dollars in millions)FoR ThE PERioD EnDED DECEMBER 31: 	 	 	 	 	 2006 2005Net unrealized gains arising during the period 	 	 	 	 $77 $64Less: Net gains included in net income for the period  	 	 	 24* Net	change	in	unrealized	gains	on	marketable	securities 	 	 	 $53 $1747**	Includes	writedowns	of	$2.9	million	and	$0.6	million	in	2006	and	2005,	respectively.	Consolidated statements ......................................................... 56Notes .....................................................................................62 A-G.......................................................................................... 62H-M......................................................................................... 80N-S.......................................................................................... 88 N..Stockholders’.Equity.Activity........................................... 88 O..Contingencies.and.Commitments.................................... 89P..Taxes................................................................................. 92Q..Research,.Development.and.Engineering....................... 93R..2005.Actions.................................................................... 93From time to time, the board of directors authorizes the company to repurchase ibm common stock. The company repurchased 97,564,462 common shares at a cost of $8,022 million, 90,237,800 common shares at a cost of $7,671 million and 78,562,974 common shares at a cost of $7,275 million in 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. The company issued 3,489,803 treasury shares in 2006, 2,594,786 treasury shares in 2005 and 2,840,648 treasury shares in 2004, as a result of exercises of stock options by employees of certain recently acquired businesses and by non-U.S. employees. At December 31, 2006, $4,993 million of Board authorized repurchases was still available. The company plans to purchase shares on the open market or in private transactions from time to time, depending on market conditions. In connection with the issuance of stock as part of the company’s stock-based compensation plans, 633,769 common shares at a cost of $52 million, 606,697 common shares at a cost of $52 million and 422,338 common shares at a cost of $38 million in 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively, were remitted by employees to the company in order to satisfy minimum statutory tax withholding requirements. Such amounts are included in the Treasury stock balance in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position and the Consolidated Statement of Stockholders’ Equity.
O. COntingenCies and COmmitmentsCOntingenCiesthe company is involved in a variety of claims, suits, investigations and proceedings that arise from time to time in the ordinary course of its business, including actions with respect to contracts, intellectual property, product liability, employment, benefits, securities and environmental matters. These actions may be commenced by a number of different constituents, including competitors, partners, clients, current or former employees, government and regulatory agencies, stockholders and representatives of the locations in which the company does business. The following is a discussion of some of the more significant legal matters involving the company.  Plaintiffs filed a class-action lawsuit against the company and its pension plan in 1999 in the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of Illinois, Cooper et al. v. The IBM Personal Pension Plan and IBM Corporation. The District Court held on July 31, 2003 that the company’s pension plan violated the age discrimination provisions of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 (ERISA). IBM and plaintiffs subsequently entered into a settlement agreement that was approved by the District Court on August 16, 2005. The agreement provides for plaintiffs to receive incremental pension benefits and for the payment of costs and attorneys fees. This agreement, together with a previous settlement of a claim referred to as the partial plan termination claim, resulted in the company taking a one-time charge of $320 million in the third quarter of 2004.  This agreement terminated the litigation on all claims except for two claims associated with IBM’s cash balance formula. The agreement permitted the company to appeal the District Court’s ruling in favor of plaintiffs on these two claims and stipulated that if the company did not prevail on appeal of the two claims, the agreed remedy, including costs and attorneys fees, would be increased by up to $1.4 billion—$780 million for an age discrimination claim with respect to the company’s cash balance formula and $620 million for the claim with respect to the “always cash balance” method used to establish opening account balances during the 1999 pension plan conversion. On August 7, 2006, the Court of Appeals for the Seventh Circuit ruled in favor of IBM on both claims. The Court of Appeals found that neither IBM’s cash balance formula, nor the “always cash balance” method by which opening account balances were established during the 1999 conversion, violated ERISA’s age discrimination provision. On September 1, 2006, the Court of Appeals denied plaintiffs’ petition for a rehearing or rehearing en banc. On January 16, 2007, the U.S. Supreme Court denied plaintiffs’ petition for certiorari. The decision by the U.S. Supreme Court ends the appeals process.  The company is a defendant in an action filed on March 6, 2003 in state court in Salt Lake City, Utah by The SCO Group. The company removed the case to Federal Court in Utah. Plaintiff is an alleged successor in interest to some of AT&T’s Unix IP rights, and alleges copyright infringement, unfair competition, interference with contract and breach of contract with regard to the company’s distribution of AIX and Dynix and contribution of code to Linux. The company has asserted counterclaims, including breach of contract, violation of the Lanham Act, unfair competition, intentional torts, unfair and deceptive trade practices, breach of the General Public License that governs open source distributions, promissory estoppel and copyright infringement. In October 2005, the company withdrew its patent counterclaims in an effort to simplify and focus the issues in the case and to expedite their resolution. Each of the parties has filed motions for summary judgment; hearings on the motions are scheduled for March 2007. A trial date has not been set.  In May 2005, the Louisiana Supreme Court denied the company’s motion to review and reverse a Louisiana state court’s certification of a nationwide class in a case filed against the company in 1995. The class consists of certain former employees who left the company in 1992, and their spouses. They claim damages based on the company’s termination of an education assistance program. On April 4, 2006, the trial court denied the company’s motion for summary judgment. On October 27, 2006, the Louisiana Supreme Court denied IBM’s writ seeking an appeal of the trial court’s decision to deny summary judgment. At present, trial briefs are due in April 2007. No date has been set for trial.  On June 2, 2003, the company announced that it received notice of a formal, nonpublic investigation by the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). The SEC sought information relating to revenue recognition in 2000 and 2001 primarily concerning certain types of client transactions. The company believes that the investigation arises from a separate investigation by the SEC of Dollar General Corporation, a client of the company’s Retail Stores Solutions unit, which markets and sells point-of-sale products.  On January 8, 2004, the company announced that it received a “Wells Notice” from the staff of the SEC in connection with the staff’s investigation of Dollar General Corporation, which as noted above, is a client of the company’s Retail Stores Solutions unit. It is the company’s understanding that an employee in the company’s Sales & Distribution unit also received a Wells Notice from the SEC in connection with this matter. The Wells Notice notifies the company that the SEC staff is considering recommending that the SEC bring a civil action against the company for possible violations of the U.S. securities laws relating to Dollar General’s accounting for a specific transaction, by participating in and aiding and abetting Dollar General’s misstatement of its 2000 results. In that transaction, the company paid Dollar General $11 million for certain used equipment as part of a sale of IBM replacement equipment in Dollar General’s 2000 fourth fiscal quarter. Under the SEC’s procedures, the company responded to the SEC staff regarding whether any action should be brought against the company by the SEC. The separate SEC investigation noted above, relating to the recognition of revenue by the company in 2000 and 2001 primarily concerning certain types of client transactions, is not the subject of this Wells Notice. On June 27, 2005, the company announced that it had received a request to voluntarily comply with an informal investigation by the staff of the SEC concerning the company’s disclosures relating to the company’s first-quarter 2005 earnings and expensing of equity compensation. On January 12, 2006, the company announced that it received notice of a formal, nonpublic investigation by the SEC of this matter. The company has been cooperating with the SEC, and will continue to do so. The SEC has informed the company that the investigation should not be construed as an indication that any violations of law have occurred. In July 2005, two lawsuits were filed in the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York related to the company’s disclosures concerning first-quarter 2005 earnings and the expensing of equity compensation. One lawsuit named as defendants IBM and IBM’s Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer. The other lawsuit named as defendants IBM, IBM’s Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer and IBM’s Chairman and Chief Executive Officer. Both complaints alleged that defendants made certain misrepresentations in violation of Section 10(b) and 20(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and Rule 10b-5 promulgated thereunder. On September 6, 2005, counsel in one of these lawsuits filed a motion seeking to have the lawsuits consolidated, and for the appointment of lead plaintiff and lead counsel. Pursuant to an Order from the Court dated March 28, 2006, the two lawsuits were consolidated into a single action captioned “In re. International Business Machines Corp. Securities Litigation.” Pursuant to a schedule set by the Court, Plaintiffs served on the company an Amended Consolidated Complaint on May 19, 2006. IBM filed a Motion to Dismiss the Amended Consolidated Complaint on June 23, 2006. Plaintiffs filed their response to IBM’s Motion on July 21, 2006; and IBM filed its final brief in support of its Motion on August 2, 2006. On September 20, 2006, the Court denied IBM’s Motion to Dismiss. On January 16, 2007, Plaintiffs filed a motion for class certification. IBM filed its response on January 23, 2007 and the Plaintiffs’ reply is due to be filed in late February 2007.  In January 2004, the Seoul District Prosecutors Office in South Korea announced it had brought criminal bid-rigging charges against several companies, including IBM Korea and LG IBM (a joint venture between IBM Korea and LG Electronics, which has since been dissolved, effective January, 2005) and had also charged employees of some of those entities with, among other things, bribery of certain officials of government-controlled entities in Korea and bid rigging. IBM Korea and LG IBM cooperated fully with authorities in these matters. A number of individuals, including former IBM Korea and LG IBM employees, were subsequently found guilty and sentenced. IBM Korea and LG IBM were also required to pay fines. Debarment orders were imposed at different times, covering a period of no more than a year from the date of issuance, which barred IBM Korea from doing business directly with certain government-controlled entities in Korea. All debarment orders have since expired and when they were in force did not prohibit IBM Korea from selling products and services to business partners who sold to government-controlled entities in Korea. In addition, the U.S. Department of Justice and the SEC have both contacted the company in connection with this matter.  On January 24, 2006, a putative class action lawsuit was filed against IBM in federal court in San Francisco on behalf of technical support workers whose primary responsibilities are or were to install and maintain computer software and hardware. The complaint was subsequently amended on March 13, 2006. The First Amended Complaint, among other things, adds four additional named plaintiffs and modifies the definition of the workers purportedly included in the class. The suit, Rosenburg, et. al., v. IBM, alleges the company failed to pay overtime wages pursuant to the Fair Labor Standards Act and state law, and asserts violations of various state wage requirements, including recordkeeping and meal-break provisions. The suit also asserts certain violations of ERISA. Relief sought includes back wages, corresponding 401(k) and pension plan credits, interest and attorneys’ fees. On January 11, 2007, the District Court granted preliminary approval to a class-wide settlement whereby IBM will place into a fund $65 million, plus certain interest accruing between December 1, 2006 until such time as the fund is transferred to the claims administrator, to pay claims asserted by class members, Plaintiffs’ attorneys’ fees and administrative costs. Individual payments will be based on factors, including the class member’s state of employment, time worked in the relevant job position and base salary. The District Court is scheduled to have a hearing to finally approve the settlement in July 2007. The charge associated with this settlement was consistent with a provision previously established by the company. On October 23, 2006, the company filed two lawsuits against Amazon.com, Inc. (Amazon), in the United States District Court for the Eastern District of Texas, one in the Lufkin Division and one in the Tyler Division. The Lufkin suit alleges that Amazon has unlawfully infringed three IBM patents. The Tyler suit alleges that Amazon has unlawfully infringed two IBM patents. The Lufkin Division patents cover methods for storing data, presenting applications and presenting advertising on a computer network. The Tyler Division patents cover an electronic catalog requisition system and related information retrieval and ordering methods and a computer-implemented hyper-
Consolidated statements ......................................................... 56 notes .....................................................................................62 A-G.......................................................................................... 62 H-M......................................................................................... 80N-S.......................................................................................... 88. N..Stockholders’.Equity.Activity........................................... 88. O..Contingencies.and.Commitments.................................... 89. P..Taxes................................................................................. 92 . Q..Research,.Development.and.Engineering....................... 93 . R..2005.Actions.................................................................... 93text system and method for operating a computer-implemented object-oriented hypertext system. Each suit seeks, among other things, compensatory damages and injunctive relief. On December 14, 2006, Amazon answered, counterclaimed in each suit and sought to transfer the Lufkin suit to consolidate it with Tyler suit. IBM filed its opposition to the transfer motion on January 2, 2007 and answered the counterclaims in both suits on January 8. On January 16, 2007, the Lufkin court denied Amazon’s transfer motion. The courts have issued scheduling orders in both suits. The Lufkin action has been set for trial on April 14, 2008 and the Tyler action on October 13, 2008.  On November 29, 2006, the company filed a lawsuit against Platform Solutions, Inc. (PSI) in the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York. IBM asserted claims for patent infringement and breach of contract in connection with PSI’s development and marketing of a computer system that PSI says is compatible with IBM’s S/390 and System z architectures. IBM also sought a declaratory judgment that its refusal to license its patents to PSI and certain of its software for use on PSI systems does not violate the antitrust laws. IBM seeks damages and injunctive relief. On January 19, 2007, PSI answered the complaint and asserted counterclaims against IBM for alleged monopolization and attempted monopolization, tying, violations of New York and California statutes proscribing unfair competition, tortious interference with the acquisition of PSI by a third party and promissory estoppel. PSI also sought declaratory judgments of noninfringement of IBM’s patents and patent invalidity. The court has not yet set a trial date. In October 2003, a purported collective action lawsuit was filed against IBM in the United States District Court for the Northern District of California by ten former IBM employees alleging, on behalf of themselves and allegedly similarly situated former employees, that the company engaged in a pattern and practice of discriminating against employees on the basis of age when it terminated employees in connection with reductions in force. Initially, the District Court dismissed the lawsuit on the basis of release agreements signed by all the plaintiffs. On appeal, the Ninth Circuit reversed the trial court’s finding that the release barred these claims, and in January 2007 after denial of IBM’s petition for rehearing, the matter was returned to the trial court for further proceedings. The company is party to, or otherwise involved in, proceedings brought by U.S. federal or state environmental agencies under the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act (CERCLA), known as “Superfund,” or laws similar to CERCLA. Such statutes require potentially responsible parties to participate in remediation activities regardless of fault or ownership of sites. The company is also conducting environmental investigations or remediations at or in the vicinity of several current or former operating sites pursuant to permits, administrative orders or agreements with state environmental agencies, and is involved in lawsuits and claims concerning certain current or former operating sites.  The company is also subject to ongoing tax examinations and governmental assessments in various jurisdictions. Similar to many other U.S. companies doing business in Brazil, the company is involved in various challenges with Brazilian authorities regarding non-income tax assessments and non-income tax litigation matters. These matters principally relate to claims for taxes on the importation of computer software. The total amounts related to these matters are approximately $1.5 billion, including amounts currently in litigation and other amounts. The company believes it will prevail on these matters and that these amounts are not meaningful indicators of liability.  In accordance with SFAS No. 5, “Accounting for Contingencies,” (SFAS No. 5), the company records a provision with respect to a claim, suit, investigation or proceeding when it is probable that a liability has been incurred and the amount of the loss can be reasonably estimated. Any provisions are reviewed at least quarterly and are adjusted to reflect the impact and status of settlements, rulings, advice of counsel and other information pertinent to a particular matter. Any recorded liabilities for the above items, including any changes to such liabilities for the year ended December 31, 2006, were not material to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Based on its experience, the company believes that the damage amounts claimed in the matters referred to above are not a meaningful indicator of the potential liability. Claims, suits, investigations and proceedings are inherently uncertain and it is not possible to predict the ultimate outcome of the matters previously discussed. While the company will continue to defend itself vigorously in all such matters, it is possible that the company’s business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows could be affected in any particular period by the resolution of one or more of these matters.  Whether any losses, damages or remedies finally determined in any such claim, suit, investigation or proceeding could reasonably have a material effect on the company’s business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flow will depend on a number of variables, including the timing and amount of such losses or damages; the structure and type of any such remedies; the significance of the impact any such losses, damages or remedies may have on the company’s Consolidated Financial Statements; and the unique facts and circumstances of the particular matter which may give rise to additional factors.COmmitmentsthe company’s extended lines of credit to third-party entities include unused amounts of $2,895 million and $3,019 million at December 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively. A portion of these amounts was available to the company’s business partners to support their working capital needs. In addition, the company has committed to provide future financing to its clients in connection with client purchase agreements for approximately $2,496 million and $2,155 million at December 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively. The change over the prior year is due to increased signings of long-term IT infrastructure arrangements in which financing is committed by the company to fund a client’s future purchases from the company. The company has applied the provisions of FIN 45 to its agreements that contain guarantee or indemnification clauses. These provisions expand those required by SFAS No. 5, by requiring a guarantor to recognize and disclose certain types of guarantees, even if the likelihood of requiring the guarantor’s performance is remote. The following is a description of arrangements in which the company is the guarantor.  The company is a party to a variety of agreements pursuant to which it may be obligated to indemnify the other party with respect to certain matters. Typically, these obligations arise in the context of contracts entered into by the company, under which the company customarily agrees to hold the other party harmless against losses arising from a breach of representations and covenants related to such matters as title to assets sold, certain IP rights, specified environmental matters, third-party performance of non-financial contractual obligations and certain income taxes. In each of these circumstances, payment by the company is conditioned on the other party making a claim pursuant to the procedures specified in the particular contract, which procedures typically allow the company to challenge the other party’s claims. Further, the company’s obligations under these agreements may be limited in terms of time and/or amount, and in some instances, the company may have recourse against third parties for certain payments made by the company.
 It is not possible to predict the maximum potential amount of future payments under these or similar agreements due to the conditional nature of the company’s obligations and the unique facts and circumstances involved in each particular agreement. Historically, payments made by the company under these agreements have not had a material effect on the company’s business, financial condition or results of operations. In addition, the company guarantees certain loans and financial commitments. The maximum potential future payment under these financial guarantees was $32 million and $39 million at December 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively. The fair value of the guarantees recognized in the company’s Consolidated Statement of Financial Position is not material.p. taxes(Dollars in millions)for the year ended deCeMBer 31: 2006 2005 2004Income from continuing  	operations before  	income taxes:  	 U.S. operations $ 7,277 $ 7,450 $ 4,400 	 Non-U.S. operations 6,040 4,776 6,269Total income from  continuing operations  before income taxes $13,317 $12,226 $10,669The continuing operations provision for income taxes by geographic operations is as follows:  The components of the continuing operations provision for income taxes by taxing jurisdiction are as follows: (Dollars in millions)for the year ended deCeMBer 31: 2006 2005 2004U.S. federal: 	Current $  602 $  521 $   	Deferred 1,326 1,811 1,668* 	   1,928 2,332 987U.S. state and local: 	Current 11 80 36 	Deferred 198 183 79 	   209 263 115Non-U.S: 	Current 1,564 1,446 2,023 	Deferred 200 191 47 	   1,764 1,637 2,070Total continuing operations  	provision for income taxes 3,901 4,232 3,172Provision for social security,  	real estate, personal  	property and other taxes 3,461 3,501 3,449Total taxes included in   income from continuing   operations $7,362 $7,733 $6,621(681)**		Included	in	the	U.S.	federal	current	and	deferred	tax	provisions	are	a	benefit	of	$848	million	and	a	charge	of	$848	million,	respectively,	due	to	a	2004	Internal	Revenue	Service	(IRS)	settlement.	A reconciliation of the statutory U.S. federal tax rate to the company’s 
(Dollars in millions)for the year ended deCeMBer 31: 2006 2005 2004U.S. operations $2,413 $2,988 $1,492Non-U.S. operations 1,488 1,244 1,680Total continuing   operations provision  for income taxes $3,901 $4,232 $3,172Consolidated statements ......................................................... 56 notes .....................................................................................62 A-G.......................................................................................... 62 H-M......................................................................................... 80N-S.......................................................................................... 88. N..Stockholders’.Equity.Activity........................................... 88 O..Contingencies.and.Commitments.................................... 89P..Taxes................................................................................. 92Q..Research,.Development.and.Engineering....................... 93R..2005.Actions.................................................................... 93continuing operations effective tax rate is as follows: for the year ended deCeMBer 31: 2006 2005 200435%Statutory rate 35% 35% Foreign tax differential (5) (5) (5)State and local 1 1 1 “Act” repatriation — 4 —Other (2) — (1)30%Effective rate 29% 35% The effect of tax law changes on deferred tax assets and liabilities did not have a material impact on the company’s effective tax rate.  The significant components of deferred tax assets and liabilities that are recorded in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position were as follows: deFerred tax assets(Dollars in millions)at deCeMBer 31: 	 2006 2005*Stock-based and other compensation 	 $ 3,147 $ 3,022Retirement-related benefits 	 3,002 3,039Capitalized research and development 	 1,355 1,728Bad debt, inventory and warranty reserves 724 937Deferred income 	 506 611Foreign tax loss carryforwards 	 390 355Domestic tax loss carryforwards 	 299 126Capital loss carryforwards 	 131 220Alternate minimum tax credits 	 — 214Other 	 1,802 1,945Gross deferred tax assets 	 11,356 12,197Less: valuation allowance 	 510 562Net deferred tax assets 	 $10,846 $11,635*	Reclassified	to	conform	with	2006	presentation.deFerred tax liabilities(Dollars in millions)at deCeMBer 31: 	 2006 2005Retirement-related benefits 	 $2,906 $ 7,267Leases 	 1,385 964Software development costs 	 505 348Other 	 1,340 1,502Gross deferred tax liabilities 	 $6,136 $10,081The valuation allowance at December 31, 2006, principally applies to certain foreign, state and local and capital loss carryforwards that, in the opinion of management, are more likely than not to expire unutilized. However, to the extent that tax benefits related to these carryforwards are realized in the future, the reduction in the valuation allowance will reduce income tax expense. In December 2006, the company and the IRS reached resolution of the company’s U.S. income tax audit for 2001 through 2003. The settlement of this audit resulted in a decrease in the 2006 effective tax rate of 3 points due to the release of previously recorded tax reserves. The company also expects to receive an immaterial tax refund for these years. In the fourth quarter of 2006, as a continuation of its global strategy, the company aligned, through an intercompany transfer, certain non-U.S. intellectual property rights with existing non-U.S. rights currently owned by one of the company’s non-U.S. manufacturing subsidiaries. This transfer resulted in a one-time increase in the 2006 effective tax rate of 4 points. For income tax return purposes, the company has foreign, domestic and capital loss carryforwards, the tax effect of which is $820 million. Substantially all of these carryforwards are available for at least two years or are available for 10 years or more. With limited exception, the company is no longer subject to U.S. federal, state and local or non-U.S. income tax audits by taxing authorities for years through 2000. The years subsequent to 2000 contain matters that could be subject to differing interpretations of applicable tax laws and regulations as it relates to the amount and/or timing of income, deductions and tax credits. Although the outcome of tax audits is always uncertain, the company believes that adequate amounts of tax and interest have been provided for any adjustments that are expected to result for these years.  The company has not provided deferred taxes on $14.2 billion of undistributed earnings of non-U.S. subsidiaries at December 31, 2006, as it is the company’s policy to indefinitely reinvest these earnings in non-U.S. operations. However, the company periodically repatriates a portion of these earnings to the extent that it does not incur an additional U.S. tax liability. Quantification of the deferred tax liability, if any, associated with indefinitely reinvested earnings is not practicable.  For additional information on the trends related to the company’s ongoing effective tax rate, as well as the company’s cash tax rate, refer to the “Looking Forward” section of the Management Discussion on page 43.Q. researCh, develOpment  and engineeringrd&e expense was $6,107 million in 2006, $5,842 million in 2005 and $5,874 million in 2004. The company incurred expense of $5,682 million in 2006, $5,379 million in 2005 and $5,339 million in 2004 for scientific research and the application of scientific advances to the development of new and improved products and their uses, as well as services and their application. Of these amounts, software-related expense was $2,842 million, $2,689 million and $2,626 million in 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. Included in the expense was a charge of $7 million and $1 million in 2006 and 2005, respectively, for acquired in-process R&D.  Expense for product-related engineering was $425 million, $463 million and $535 million in 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. r. 2005 aCtiOnsin may 2005, management announced its plans to implement a series of restructuring actions designed to improve the company’s efficiencies, strengthen its client-facing operations and capture opportunities in high-growth markets. The company’s actions primarily included voluntary and involuntary workforce reductions, with the majority impacting the Global Services segments, primarily in Europe, as well as costs incurred in connection with the vacating of leased facilities. These actions were in addition to the company’s ongoing workforce reduction and rebalancing activities that occur each quarter. The total charges expected to be incurred in connection with all second-quarter 2005 initiatives is approximately $1,757 million ($1,747 million of which has been recorded cumulatively through December 31, 2006) . Approximately $1,625 million of the total charges require cash payments, of which approximately $1,368 million have been made as of December 31, 2006 and $92 million are expected to be made over the next 12 months.  	Total pre-tax restructuring activity was as follows: (Dollars in millions)  	 	 	Pre-tax   	 	 	Charges 	 	LiaBiLity  	 	 	LiaBiLity   	 	 	reCorded 	 	reCorded in 	 	 	as of   	 	 	in seCond 	asset 	the seCond  	 	 	deC. 31,   	 	 	Qtr. 2005 	iMPairMents 	Qtr. 2005 	PayMents 	other** 	 2005Workforce reductions 	$1,574 	$  — 	$1,574 	$(1,013) 	$(107) 	$454Vacant space 141 — 141 (53) (5) 83 Asset impairments 95 95 — — — —Total restructuring activity for   second-quarter 2005 actions 	$1,810* 	$95 	$1,715 	$(1,066) 	$(112) 	$537+*	$1.6	billion	recorded	in	SG&A	expense	and	$0.2	billion	recorded	in	Other	(income)	and	expense	in	the	Consolidated	Statement	of	Earnings.	**		Consists	of	foreign	currency	translation	adjustments	($38	million),	net	balance	sheet	reclassifications	($41	million)	and	reversals	of	previously	recorded	liabilities	($34	million)	for	changes	in	the	estimated	cost	of	employee	terminations	and	vacant	space,	offset	by	approximately	$1	million	of	accretion	expense.	The	reversals	were	recorded	primarily	in	SG&A	expense.	+	$391	million	recorded	as	a	current	liability	in	Accounts	payable	and	accruals	and	$146	million	as	a	non-current	liability	in	Other	liabilities	in	the	Consolidated	Statement	of	Financial	Position.	(Dollars in millions)      LiaBiLity    LiaBiLity       as of   as of       deC. 31,    deC. 31,        2005 PayMents other*  2006Workforce reductions 	 	 	$454 	$(264) 	$10 	$ 199Vacant space 	 	 	83 	(37) 	1 	47Total restructuring activity for second-quarter 2005 actions 	 	$537 	$(302) 	$11 	$247***		Consists	of	foreign	currency	translation	adjustments	($37	million),	net	balance	sheet	reclassifications	($2	million),	accretion	expense	($7	million)	and	reversals	of	previous	recorded	liabilities	($35	million)	for	changes	in	the	estimated	cost	of	employee	terminations	and	vacant	space.	These	reversals,	net	of	accretion	expense,	were	primarily	recorded	in	SG&A.	**		$92	million	recorded	as	a	current	liability	in	Accounts	payable	and	accruals	and	$155	million	as	a	non-current	liability	in	Other	liabilities	in	the	Consolidated	Statement	of	Financial	Position.	Charges incurred for the workforce reductions consisted of severance/ termination benefits for approximately 16,000 employees (14,500 of which were for the incremental second-quarter 2005 actions). All separations were substantially completed by March 31, 2006. The non-current portion of the liability associated with the workforce reductions relates to terminated employees who were granted annual payments to supplement their income in certain countries. Depending on individual country legal requirements, these required payments will continue until the former employee begins receiving pension benefits or is deceased. Cash payments made through December 31, 2006 associated with the workforce reductions were $1,277 million. The vacant space accruals are primarily for ongoing obligations to pay rent for vacant space, offset by estimated sublease income, over the respective lease term of the company’s lease agreements. The Consolidated statements ......................................................... 56 notes .....................................................................................62 A-G.......................................................................................... 62 H-M......................................................................................... 80N-S.......................................................................................... 88. N..Stockholders’.Equity.Activity........................................... 88 O..Contingencies.and.Commitments.................................... 89 P..Taxes................................................................................. 92 Q..Research,.Development.and.Engineering....................... 93R..2005.Actions.................................................................... 93length of these obligations varies by lease with the longest extending through 2016. In connection with the company’s restructuring activities initiated in the second quarter of 2005, the company recorded pre-tax impairment charges for certain real estate assets of approximately $95 million during the year ended December 31, 2005. The principal component of such impairment charges resulted from the sale of a facility in Yasu-City, Japan, which closed during the third quarter of 2005. In connection with this sale, the company recorded an impairment charge to write the asset down to its fair value in the second quarter.  These restructuring activities had the following effect on the company’s reportable segments:(Dollars in millions) 	 totaL Pre-tax CuMuLative Charges Pre-tax Charges exPeCted reCorded for  to Be 2nd-Qtr. 2005at deCeMBer 31: inCurred  initiatives*Global Technology Services $  718 	 	$  713Global Business Services 442 	 	441Systems and Technology Group 132 	 	132Software 98 	 	97Global Financing 16 	 	16Total reportable segments 1,405 	 	1,399Unallocated corporate amounts 352 	 	348Total  $1,757 	 	$1,747*		Includes	$35	million	and	$34	million	for	reversals	of	previously	recorded	charges	for	the	years	ended	December	31,	2006	and	2005,	respectively,	due	to	changes	in	the		estimated	cost	of	employee	terminations	and	vacant	space.	These	adjustments	were		predominantly	recorded	in	SG&A	expense	in	the	Consolidated	Statement	of	Earnings.
s. earnings per share OF COmmOn stOCkThe following table presents the computation of basic and diluted earnings per share of common stock: for the year ended deCeMBer 31: 	 	 	 	 2006 2005* 2004Weighted-average number of shares on which earnings   	per share calculations are based:Basic  	 	 	 1,530,806,987 1,600,591,264 1,674,959,086 	Add—incremental shares under stock compensation plans 	 	 18,074,331 21,757,121 26,905,053 	Add—incremental shares associated with convertible notes 	 	 3,273,706 3,791,228 4,273,541 	Add—incremental shares associated with contingently issuable shares 	 1,380,360 1,493,049 1,094,028Assuming dilution 	 	 	 1,553,535,384 1,627,632,662 1,707,231,708(Dollars in millions except per share amounts)Basic: 	Income from continuing operations  	 	 	 $9,416 $7,994 $7,497 	Income/(loss) from discontinued operations 	 	 	 76 (24) (18) 	Cumulative effect of change in accounting principle** 	 	 — (36) —Net income from total operations on which   basic earnings per share is calculated 	 	 	 $9,492 $7,934 $7,479Assuming dilution: 	Income from continuing operations  	 	 	 $9,416 $7,994 $7,497 	Net loss applicable to contingently issuable shares liability 	 	 — (2) — 	Income/(loss) from discontinued operations 	 	 	 76 (24) (18) 	Cumulative effect of change in accounting principle** 	 	 — (36) —Net income from total operations on which   diluted earnings per share is calculated 	 	 	 $9,492 $7,932 $7,479Earnings/(loss) per share of common stock: 	Assuming dilution: 	 	Continuing operations 	 	 	 $ 6.06 $ 4.91 $ 4.39 	 	Discontinued operations 	 	 	 0.05 (0.01) (0.01) 	 	Before cumulative effect of change in accounting principle 	 	 6.11 4.90 4.38 	 	Cumulative effect of change in accounting principle** 	 	 — (0.02) —Total  	 	 	 $ 6.11 $ 4.87 $ 4.38 	Basic: 	 	Continuing operations 	 	 	 $ 6.15 $ 4.99 $ 4.48 	 	Discontinued operations 	 	 	 0.05 (0.02) (0.01) 	 	Before cumulative effect of change in accounting principle 	 	 6.20 4.98 4.47 	 	Cumulative effect of change in accounting principle** 	 	 — (0.02) —Total  	 	 	 $ 6.20 $ 4.96 $ 4.47*	Reclassified	to	conform	with	2006	presentation.**	Reflects	implementation	of	FASB	Interpretation	No.	47.	See	note	B,	“Accounting	Changes,”	on	page	72	for	additional	information.Weighted-average stock options to purchase 157,942,283 common shares in 2006, 165,615,293 common shares in 2005 and 133,220,730 common shares in 2004 were outstanding, but were not included in the computation of diluted earnings per share because the exercise price of the options was greater than the average market price of the common shares for the full year and, therefore, the effect would have been antidilutive.
t. rental expense and  lease COmmitments(Dollars in millions)  	 	 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Beyond 2011Operating lease commitments: 	Gross minimum rental commitments  	 	(including Vacant space below) $1,302 $1,100 $906 $696 $486 $855 	Vacant space 94 48 29 21 18 11 	Sublease income commitments (87) (64) (43) (33) (18) (16)Capital lease commitments 83 76 71 78 15 39(Dollars in millions)for the year ended deCeMBer 31: 2006 2005 2004Cost  $  216 $  330 $  463Selling, general and  	administrative* 541 606 914Research, development and  	engineering 89 107 201Other (income) and expense** — (8) —Pre-tax stock-based  	compensation expense 846 1,035 1,578Income tax benefits (305) (349) (498)Total stock-based   compensation expense $  541 $  686 $1,080*		Includes	$7	million	of	credits	recorded	during	the	year	ended	December	31,	2005,	as	a	result	of	awards	forfeited	in	connection	with	the	company’s	second-quarter	2005	workforce	resource	actions.**		Reflects	the	one-time	effects	on	stock-based	compensation	expense	as	a	result	of	the	divestiture	of	the	Personal	Computing	business.u. stOCk-based COmpensatiOneffective January 1, 2005, the company adopted the fair value recognition provisions for stock-based awards granted to employees using the modified retrospective application method provided by SFAS No. 123(R), “Share-Based Payment,” (SFAS No. 123(R)). Stock-based compensation cost is measured at grant date, based on the fair value of the award, and is recognized as expense over the employee requisite service period. See note A, “Significant Accounting Policies,” on page 68 for additional information. The following table represents total stock-based compensation expense included in the Consolidated Statement of Earnings:Total unrecognized compensation costs related to non-vested awards at December 31, 2006 and 2005 were $1,238 million and $1,512 million, respectively, and are expected to be recognized over a weighted-average period of approximately two years. There were no significant capitalized stock-based compensation costs at December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004.Consolidated statements ......................................................... 56 notes .....................................................................................62 A-G.......................................................................................... 62H-M......................................................................................... 80N-S.......................................................................................... 88T-X........................................................................................... 96T..Rental.Expense.and.Lease.Commitments........................ 96 U..Stock-Based.Compensation............................................. 96 V..Retirement-Related.Benefits..........................................100 W..Segment.Information....................................................111rental expense from continuing operations, including amounts charged to inventories and fixed assets, and excluding amounts previously reserved, was $1,263 million in 2006, $1,345 million in 2005 and $1,442 million in 2004. Rental expense in agreements with rent holidays and scheduled rent increases is recorded on a straightline basis over the lease term. Contingent rentals are included in the determination of rental expense as accruable. The table below depicts gross minimum rental commitments from continuing operations under noncancelable leases, amounts related to vacant space associated with infrastructure reductions and restructuring actions taken through 1993, and in 1999, 2002 and 2005 (previously reserved), sublease income commitments and capital lease commitments. These amounts reflect activities primarily related to office space, as well as manufacturing facilities. 
inCentive awardsstock-based incentive awards are provided to employees under the terms of the company’s plans (the “plans”). The Plans are administered by the Executive Compensation and Management Resources Committee of the Board of Directors (the “Committee”). Awards under the Plans principally include at-the-money stock options, premium-priced stock options, restricted stock units, performance stock units, stock appreciation rights or any combination thereof. The nonmanagement members of the IBM Board of Directors also received stock options under a director stock option plan through December 31, 2006. The director stock option plan was terminated effective January 1, 2007. The amount of shares originally authorized to be issued under the company’s existing Plans was 274.1 million at December 31, 2006 and 2005. In addition, certain incentive awards granted under previous plans, if and when those awards were canceled, could be reissued under the company’s existing Plans. As such, 45.9 million and 44.7 million additional awards are considered authorized to be issued under the company’s existing Plans as of December 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively. There were 51.6 million and 66.2 million option awards outstanding (which were included in the total options outstanding at December 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively) under previous plans that, if and when cancelled, would increase the number of authorized shares. There were 131.8 million and 127.4 million unused shares available to be granted under the Plans as of December 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively. Under the company’s long-standing practices and policies, all stock option awards are approved prior to or on the date of grant. The exercise price of at-the-money stock options is the average of the high and low market price on the date of grant or, in the case of premium-priced stock options, 10 percent above such average. The options approval process specifies the individual receiving the grant, the number of options or the value of the award, the exercise price or formula for determining the exercise price and the date of grant. All option awards for senior management are approved by the Committee. All option awards for employees other than senior management are approved by senior management pursuant to a series of delegations that were approved by the Committee, and the grants made pursuant to these delegations are reviewed periodically with the Committee. Options that are awarded as part of annual total compensation for senior management and other employees are made on specific cycle dates scheduled in advance. With respect to option awards given in connection with promotions or new hires, the company’s policy requires approval of such awards prior to the grant date, which is typically the date of the promotion or the date of hire. The exercise price of these options is the average of the high and low market price on the date of grant in the case of at-the-money stock options or, in the case of premiumpriced stock options, 10 percent above such average.stock OptionsStock options are awards which allow the employee to purchase shares of the company’s stock at a fixed price. Stock options are granted at an exercise price equal to or greater than the company stock price on the date of grant. These awards, which generally vest 25 percent per year, are fully vested four years from the date of grant and have a contractual term of 10 years. In 2004, the company implemented a new stock-based program for its senior executives, designed to drive improved performance and increase the ownership executives have in the company. Under this program, the company’s top executives receive stock options priced at a 10 percent premium to the average market price of IBM stock on the grant date. In addition, these executives have the opportunity to receive at-the-money stock options by agreeing to defer a certain percentage of their annual incentive compensation into IBM equity, where it is held for three years or until retirement. In 2005, this program was expanded to cover all executives of the company. Options under this program become fully vested three years from the date of grant and have a contractual term of 10 years. The plan element permitting deferral of annual incentive compensation into IBM equity and receiving at-the-money stock options was terminated at December 31, 2006. The company estimates the fair value of stock options using the Black-Scholes valuation model, consistent with the provisions of SFAS No. 123(R) and SAB No. 107. Key inputs and assumptions used to estimate the fair value of stock options include the grant price of the award, the expected option term, volatility of the company’s stock, the risk-free rate and the company’s dividend yield. Estimates of fair value are not intended to predict actual future events or the value ultimately realized by employees who receive equity awards, and subsequent events are not indicative of the reasonableness of the original estimates of fair value made by the company. The fair value of each stock option grant was estimated at the date of grant using a Black-Scholes option pricing model. The following table presents the weighted-average assumptions used in the valuation and the resulting weighted-average fair value per option granted:for the year ended deCeMBer 31: 2006 2005 2004Option term (years)* 5 5 5Volatility** 26.2% 34.7% 37.8% Risk-free interest rate (zero  	coupon U.S. treasury note) 4.9% 4.0% 3.5% Dividend yield 1.3% 0.9% 0.8% Weighted-average fair value  	per option granted $23 $29 $34*		The	Option	term	is	the	number	of	years	that	the	company	estimates,	based	upon	history,	that	options	will	be	outstanding	prior	to	exercise	or	forfeiture.	**		The	company’s	estimates	of	expected	volatility	are	principally	based	on	daily	price	changes	of	the	company’s	stock	over	the	expected	option	term,	as	well	as	the	additional	requirements	included	in	the	provisions	of	SFAS	No.	123(R)	and	the	guidance	provided	by	SAB	No.	107.	
The following table summarizes option activity under the Plans during the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004:   	 	 2006 2005 2004Wtd. Avg.  Wtd. avg.  Wtd. avg.   	 	 ExErcisE No. of shArEs exerCise no. of shares exerCise no. of shares   	 	 PricE UNdEr oPtioN PriCe under oPtion PriCe under oPtionBalance at January 1 $ 91 236,070,040 $ 89 249,347,906 $86 244,966,052Options granted 85 2,013,623 100 13,016,765 97 26,537,055Options exercised 53 (21,685,948) 47 (11,690,186) 47 (14,035,038)Options canceled/expired 100 (8,734,492) 97 (14,604,445) 93 (8,120,163)Balance at December 31 $ 95 207,663,223 $ 91 236,070,040 $89 249,347,906Exercisable at December 31 $ 95 177,318,905 $ 92 176,962,180 $89 159,607,886During the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004, the company granted approximately 0.5 million, 12.5 million and 5.0 million stock options, respectively, with exercise prices greater than the stock price at the date of grant. These stock options had weighted-average exercise prices of $91, $100 and $106 for the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively, and are included in the table above.  The shares under option at December 31, 2006 were in the following exercise price ranges: 	oPtions outstanding   	 	 	 	    Wtd. avg.  	 	 	 	 Wtd. avg. nuMBer aggregate reMaining  	 	 	 	 exerCise of shares intrinsiC ContraCtuaLexerCise PriCe range 	 	 	 PriCe under oPtion vaLue Life (in years)$34-$60 	 	 $ 51 19,647,646 $  915,580,749 2$61-$85 	 	 78 45,044,045 877,175,067 6$86-$105 	 	 98 78,802,714 150,501,582 6$106 and over 	 	 116 64,168,818 — 4 	 	 	 	 	 $ 95 207,663,223 $1,943,257,398 5 	oPtions exerCisaBLe   	 	 	 	    Wtd. avg.  	 	 	 	 Wtd. avg. nuMBer aggregate reMaining  	 	 	 	 exerCise of shares intrinsiC ContraCtuaLexerCise PriCe range 	 	 	 PriCe under oPtion vaLue Life (in years)$34-$60 	 	 $ 51 19,647,646 $  915,580,749 2$61-$85 	 	 77 35,981,052 735,466,736 6$86-$105 	 	 98 59,477,967 118,167,463 5$106 and over 	 	 117 62,212,240 — 4 	 	 	 	 	 $ 95 177,318,905 $1,769,214,948 4Consolidated statements ......................................................... 56 notes .....................................................................................62 A-G.......................................................................................... 62 H-M......................................................................................... 80 N-S.......................................................................................... 88T-X........................................................................................... 96T..Rental.Expense.and.Lease.Commitments........................ 96 U..Stock-Based.Compensation............................................. 96 V..Retirement-Related.Benefits..........................................100 W..Segment.Information....................................................111
 In connection with various acquisition transactions, there were an additional 3.2 million options outstanding at December 31, 2006, as a result of the company’s assumption of options granted by the acquired entities. The weighted-average exercise price of these options was $77 per share.exercises of employee stock OptionsThe total intrinsic value of options exercised during the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004 was $727 million, $470 million and $651 million, respectively. The total cash received from employees as a result of employee stock option exercises for the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004 was approximately $1,149 million, $550 million and $661 million, respectively. In connection with these exercises, the tax benefits realized by the company for the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004 were $242 million, $148 million and $225 million, respectively. The company settles employee stock option exercises primarily with newly issued common shares and, occasionally, with treasury shares. Total treasury shares held at December 31, 2006 and 2005 were approximately 502 million and 407 million shares, respectively.stock awardsIn addition to stock options, the company grants its employees stock awards. These awards are made in the form of Restricted Stock Units (RSUs) or Performance Stock Units (PSUs). RSUs are stock awards granted to employees that entitle the holder to shares of common stock as the award vests, typically over a two- to five-year period. The fair value of the awards is determined and fixed on the grant date based on the company’s stock price. During the year ended December 31, 2006, the company modified its equity compensation plans to increase awards of RSUs compared to stock options. RSUs awarded during the years ended December 31, 2005 and 2004 were not material when compared to the value of stock options awarded during the respective years.  The following table summarizes RSU activity under the Plans during the year ended December 31, 2006: 	Wtd. avg. nuMBer  	grant PriCe of unitsBalance at January 1 $83 6,813,698RSUs granted 85 4,831,227RSUs released 76  (1,037,927)RSUs canceled/forfeited 85 (389,740)Balance at December 31 $84 10,217,258The remaining weighted-average contractual term of RSUs at December 31, 2006 is the same as the period over which the remaining cost of the awards will be recognized, which is approximately three years. The fair value of RSUs granted during the year ended December 31, 2006 was $410 million. The total fair value of RSUs vested and released during the year ended December 31, 2006 was $79 million. As of December 31, 2006, there was $501 million of unrecognized compensation cost related to nonvested RSUs. The company received no cash from employees as a result of employee vesting and release of RSUs for the year ended December 31, 2006. In connection with employee vesting and release of RSUs, the tax benefit realized by the company for the year ended December 31, 2006 was $59 million. PSUs are stock awards where the number of shares ultimately received by the employee depends on the company’s performance against specified targets and typically vest over a three-year period. The fair value of each PSU is determined on the date of grant, based on the company’s stock price, and assumes that performance targets will be achieved. Over the performance period, the number of shares of stock that will be issued is adjusted upward or downward based upon the probability of achievement of performance targets. The ultimate number of shares issued and the related compensation cost recognized as expense will be based on a comparison of the final performance metrics to the specified targets. The fair value of PSUs granted during the year ended December 31, 2006 was $104 million. Total fair value of PSUs vested and released during the year ended December 31, 2006 was $67 million. ibm emplOyees stOCk purChase plan the company maintains an employees stock purchase plan (espp). The ESPP enables eligible participants to purchase full or fractional shares of IBM common stock through payroll deductions of up to 10 percent of eligible compensation. Eligible compensation includes any compensation received by the employee during the year. The ESPP provides for offering periods during which shares may be purchased and continues as long as shares remain available under the ESPP, unless terminated earlier at the discretion of the Board of Directors. Individual ESPP participants are restricted from purchasing more than $25,000 of common stock in one calendar year or 1,000 shares in an offering period.  Prior to April 1, 2005, the ESPP was considered compensatory under the provisions of SFAS No. 123(R). The share price paid by an employee prior to April 1, 2005 was the lesser of 85 percent of the average market price on the first business day of each offering period or 85 percent of the average market price on the last business day of each pay period. Effective April 1, 2005, the company modified the terms of the plan whereas eligible participants may purchase full or fractional shares of IBM common stock under the ESPP at a five percent discount off the average market price on the day of the purchase. In accordance with the provisions of SFAS No. 123(R), effective April 1, 2005, the ESPP is not considered compensatory. 
 Employees purchased 5.8 million, 6.7 million and 11.6 million shares under the ESPP during the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. Cash dividends declared and paid by the company on its common stock also include cash dividends on the company stock purchased through the ESPP. Dividends are paid on full and fractional shares and can be reinvested in the ESPP. The company stock purchased through the ESPP is considered outstanding and is included in the weighted-average outstanding shares for purposes of computing basic and diluted earnings per share. Approximately 20.3 million, 26.2 million and 32.8 million shares were available for purchase under the ESPP at December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. v. retirement-related beneFitsdesCriptiOn OF plansibm sponsors defined benefit pension plans and defined contribution plans that cover substantially all regular employees, a supplemental retention plan that covers certain U.S. executives and nonpension postretirement benefit plans primarily consisting of retiree medical and dental benefits for eligible retirees and dependents. These benefits form an important part of the company’s total compensation and benefits program that is designed to attract and retain highly skilled and talented employees. u.s. plans deFined beneFit pensiOn planibm personal pension plan IBM provides U.S. regular, full-time and part-time employees hired prior to January 1, 2005 with noncontributory defined benefit pension benefits via the IBM Personal Pension Plan (PPP). The PPP consists of a tax-qualified (qualified) plan and a non-tax qualified (non-qualified) plan. The qualified plan is funded by company contributions to an irrevocable trust fund, which is held for the sole benefit of participants and beneficiaries. The non-qualified plan, which is unfunded, provides benefits in excess of IRS limitations for qualified plans. Benefits provided to the PPP participants are calculated using benefit formulas that vary based on the participant. Pension benefits are calculated using one of two methods based upon specified criteria used to determine each participant’s eligibility. The first method uses a five-year, final pay formula that determines benefits based on salary, years of service, mortality and other participant-specific factors. The second method is a cash balance formula that calculates benefits using a percentage of employees’ annual salary, as well as an interest crediting rate. In December 2005, the company approved an amendment to the PPP, which provides that no further benefits under the PPP will accrue for active participants after December 31, 2007. u.s. supplemental retention planThe company also sponsors a non-qualified U.S. Supplemental Retention Plan (SRP). The SRP, which is unfunded, provides benefits to eligible U.S. executives based on average earnings, years of service and age at termination of employment. Effective July 1, 1999, the company replaced the then-effective SRP with the current SRP. Some participants in the previous SRP will still be eligible for benefits under that prior plan if those benefits are greater than the benefits provided under the current plan. In December 2005, the company approved an amendment to the SRP, which provides that no further benefits will accrue for active participants after December 31, 2007. deFined COntributiOn plansibm savings plan U.S. regular, full-time and part-time employees are eligible to participate in the IBM Savings Plan, which is a qualified defined contribution plan under section 401(k) of the Internal Revenue Code. For participants hired prior to January 1, 2005, the company matches 50 percent of their contributions up to the first 6 percent of eligible compensation. For participants hired or rehired on or after January 1, 2005, who have completed one year of service, the company matches 100 percent of their contributions up to the first 6 percent of eligible compensation. These participants participate in the 401(k) Pension 
Consolidated statements ......................................................... 56 notes .....................................................................................62 A-G.......................................................................................... 62 H-M......................................................................................... 80 N-S.......................................................................................... 88T-X........................................................................................... 96. T..Rental.Expense.and.Lease.Commitments........................ 96. U..Stock-Based.Compensation............................................. 96. V..Retirement-Related.Benefits..........................................100. W..Segment.Information....................................................111Plan offered through the IBM Savings Plan. The company’s matching contributions vest immediately, and participants are always fully vested in their own contributions. All contributions, including the company match, are made in cash in accordance with the participants’ investment elections. There are no minimum amounts that must be invested in company stock, and there are no restrictions on transferring amounts out of the company stock to another investment choice.  In January 2006, the company announced its intention to amend the plan effective January 1, 2008. The announced change will consist of two components: an automatic contribution for all eligible U.S. employees and an increase in the amount of company matching contribution for all eligible U.S. employees hired on or before December 31, 2004.ibm executive deferred Compensation planThe company also maintains an unfunded, non-qualified, defined contribution plan, the IBM Executive Deferred Compensation Plan (EDCP), which allows eligible executives to defer compensation and to receive company matching contributions under the applicable IBM Savings Plan formula (depending on the date of hire, as described earlier), with respect to amounts in excess of IRS limits for qualified plans. Amounts contributed to the plan as a result of deferred compensation, as well as company matching contributions, are recorded as liabilities. Deferred compensation amounts may be directed by participants into an account that replicates the return that would have been received had the amounts been invested in similar IBM Savings Plan investment options. The company matching contributions are directed to participant accounts and change in value each reporting period based on changes in the company’s stock price. nOnpensiOn pOstretirement beneFit planu.s. nonpension postretirement plan The company sponsors a defined benefit nonpension postretirement benefit plan that provides medical and dental benefits to eligible U.S. retirees and eligible dependents, as well as life insurance for eligible U.S. retirees. Effective July 1, 1999, the company established a Future Health Account (FHA) for employees who were more than five years away from retirement eligibility. Employees who were within five years of retirement eligibility are covered under the company’s prior retiree health benefits arrangements. Under either the FHA or the prior retiree health benefit arrangements, there is a maximum cost to the company for retiree health benefits. For employees who retired before January 1, 1992, that maximum became effective in 2001. For all other employees, the maximum is effective upon retirement.  Effective January 1, 2004, the company amended its nonpension postretirement benefit plan to provide that new hires, as of that date or later, will no longer be eligible for company subsidized benefits.non-u.s. plansMost subsidiaries and branches outside the United States sponsor defined benefit and/or defined contribution plans that cover substantially all regular employees. The company deposits funds under various fiduciary-type arrangements, purchases annuities under group contracts or provides reserves for these plans. Benefits under the defined benefit plans are typically based either on years of service and the employee’s compensation (generally during a fixed number of years immediately before retirement) or on annual credits. The range of assumptions that are used for the non-U.S. defined benefit plans reflects the different economic environments within various countries.  In addition, certain of the company’s non-U.S. subsidiaries sponsor defined benefit nonpension postretirement benefit plans that provide medical and dental benefits for eligible non-U.S. retirees and eligible dependents, as well as life insurance for certain eligible non-U.S. retirees. However, most of the retirees outside the United States are covered by local government sponsored and administered programs.implementatiOn OF sFas nO. 158as highlighted in note b, “accounting Changes,” on page 71, effective december 31, 2006, the company adopted the provisions of SFAS No. 158. In note A, “Significant Accounting Policies,” on pages 67 and 68, the requirements of SFAS No. 158 are discussed in detail. SFAS No. 158 requires the recognition of the funded status of each defined benefit pension plan and nonpension postretirement benefit plan on the company’s balance sheet. Each overfunded plan is recognized as an asset and each underfunded plan (or unfunded) is recognized as a liability. The initial impact of SFAS No. 158 due to previously unrecognized actuarial gains and losses and prior service costs or credits, as well as subsequent changes in the funded status, is recognized as a component of Accumulated gains and losses not affecting retained earnings (net of tax) in Stockholders’ equity. The following table presents the incremental effect of applying SFAS No. 158 on the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position:(Dollars in millions) Before 	  	after aPPLiCation 	 	aPPLiCation at deCeMBer 31, 2006 of sfas no. 158 adjustMents* of sfas no. 158Prepaid pension assets $ 24,003 $(13,374) $ 10,629Investments and sundry  	assets (deferred taxes) 	$  4,245 $   4,136 $  8,381Total Assets $112,473 $ (9,240) $103,234Current liabilities,   	Compensation and   	benefits $  3,605 $   990 $  4,595Non-current liabilities,   	Retirement   	and nonpension   	postretirement   	obligations $ 12,888 $   665 $ 13,553Other liabilities  	(deferred taxes) $  8,701 $ (1,397) $  7,304Total Liabilities $ 74,470 $   258 $ 74,728Accumulated gains and  	(losses) not affecting   	retained earnings,   	net of tax $    597 $ (9,498) $  (8,901)Total Stockholders’ Equity $ 38,004 $ (9,498) $ 28,506*		Adjustments	are	primarily	comprised	of	previously	unrecognized	gains/(losses),	prior	service	costs/(credits)	and	transition	assets/(obligations).At December 31, 2006, the company recorded prior service costs, net gains/(losses) and transition assets/(obligations) in the Stockholders’ equity section of the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position, net of tax, of $871 million, $(10,371) million and $2 million, respectively.  In addition, the minimum pension liability of $2,348 million was eliminated upon the adoption of SFAS No. 158. 
plan FinanCial inFOrmatiOnsummary of Financial informationThe following table presents a summary of the total retirement-related benefits net periodic cost/(income) recorded in the Consolidated Statement of Earnings: (Dollars in millions) 	u.s. PLans  	non-u.s. PLans 	totaLfor the year ended deCeMBer 31: 2006 2005 2004 2006 2005*** 2004 2006 	2005*** 	2004Significant defined benefit pension plans* $  456 $  381 $ 30 $  639 $  729 $ 65 $1,095 $1,110 $   95Other defined benefit pension plans** 93 125 110 85 136 187 178 261 297Supplemental Retention Plan 20 9 22 — — — 20 9 22Total defined benefit pension plans cost $  569 $  515 $162 $  724 $  865 $252 $1,293 $1,380 $  414IBM Savings Plan and Non-U.S. Plans $  358 $  331 $329 $  377 $  337 $320 $  735 $  668 $  649Executive Deferred Compensation Plan 11 10 9 — — — 11 10 9Total defined contribution plans cost $  370 $  341 $338 $  377 $  337 $320 $  747 $  678 $  658Nonpension postretirement  	benefit plans cost $  335 $  332 $327 $   53 $   47 $ 45 $  388 $  379 $  372Total retirement-related benefits  net periodic cost $1,274 $1,188 $827 $1,154 $1,249 $617 $2,428 $2,437 $1,444*		Significant	defined	benefit	pension	plans	consist	of	the	qualified	portion	of	the	PPP	in	the	U.S.	and	the	material	non-U.S.	Plans.	See	page	103	for	a	list	of	significant	plans.**	Other	defined	benefit	pension	plans	consist	of	the	non-qualified	portion	of	the	PPP	in	the	U.S.	and	the	non-material	non-U.S.	Plans.The following table presents a summary of the total projected benefit obligation, fair value of plan assets and the associated funded status recorded in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position:(Dollars in millions) ProjeCted Benefit fair vaLue funded net aMount  oBLigation of PLan assets status reCognized**at deCeMBer 31:  2006 2005+ 2006 2005+ 2006 2005 2005U.S. Plans: 	Overfunded plans:  	 	Qualified portion of the PPP $46,498 $46,405 $52,913 $48,542 $   6,415 $   2,137 $  13,876 	Underfunded plans: 	 	Non-qualified portion of the PPP $ 1,123 $ 1,135 $    — $    — $ (1,123) $ (1,135) $ (1,090) 	 	Supplemental Retention Plan 217 204 — — (217) (204) (207) 	  Nonpension Postretirement Benefit Plan 5,773 5,892 47 66 (5,726) (5,826) (5,095)Total underfunded U.S. Plans $ 7,113 $ 7,231 $    47 $     66 $ (7,066) $ (7,165) $ (6,392)Non-U.S. Plans*: 	Overfunded plans:  	 	Qualified defined benefit pension plans $25,613 $11,626 $29,766 $13,908 $   4,153 $   2,282 $   6,458 	Underfunded plans: 	 	Qualified defined benefit pension plans $ 9,076 $20,740 $ 7,866 $17,241 $ (1,210) $ (3,499) $ (2,334) 	 	Non-qualified defined benefit   	 	 	pension plans 4,765 4,277 — — (4,765) (4,277) (4,099) 	 	Nonpension postretirement benefit plans 637 585 — — (637) (585) (344)Total underfunded non-U.S. plans $14,478 $25,602 $ 7,866 $17,241 $ (6,612) $ (8,361) $ (6,777)Total overfunded plans $72,111 $58,031 $82,679 $62,450 $  10,568 $   4,419 $  20,334Total underfunded plans* $21,591 $32,833 $ 7,913 $17,307 $(13,678) $(15,526) $(13,169)*	Excludes	non-material	non-U.S.	defined	benefit	pension	plans;	see	page	103	for	a	list	of	significant	plans.**		In	2005,	the	net	amount	recognized	represented	amounts	recognized	in	the	Consolidated	Statement	of	Financial	Position	which	included	both	the	funded	status	as	well	as	any	previously	deferred	items.	At	December	31,	2006,	in	accordance	with	the	provisions	of	SFAS	No.	158,	the	amount	recognized	in	the	Consolidated	Statement	of	Financial	Position	was	equivalent	to	the	funded	status.	In	both	years,	the	amounts	recognized	in	the	Consolidated	Statement	of	Financial	Position	were	recorded	as	follows:	Asset	amounts	recorded	as	Prepaid	pension	assets;	(Liability)	amounts	recorded	as	Compensation	and	benefits	(current	liability)	and	Retirement	and	nonpension	postretirement	benefit	obligations	(non-current	liability). +	Amounts	have	been	reclassified	to	conform	with	2006	presentation.
(Dollars in millions) 	 	nonPension PostretireMent  	signifiCant defined Benefit Pension PLans 	Benefit PLans for the year ended deCeMBer 31: u.s. PLan  	non-u.s. PLans 	u.s. PLan2006 2005 2004 2006 2005 2004 2006 2005 2004Service cost $   769 $  682 $  652 $  596 $  694 $  611 $  62 $ 45 $ 40Interest cost 2,454 2,463 2,453 1,585 1,635 1,618 306 324 337Expected return on plan assets (3,613) (3,672) (3,607) (2,298) (2,245) (2,380) — — —Amortization of transition assets — — (72) (6) (6) (10) — — —Amortization of prior service   	costs/(credits) 61 61 61 (108) 8 5 (62) (62) (62)Settlement of certain legal claims — — 320 — — — — — —Recognized actuarial losses 785 567 223 870 578 221 29 25 12Plan amendments/  	curtailments/settlements — 280 — — 65 — — — —Total net periodic cost $   456 $  381 $   30 $  639 $  729 $   65 $ 335 $332 $327defined benefit pension and nonpension postretirement benefit plan Financial information The following represents financial information for the company’s significant retirement-related benefit plans. The significant defined benefit pension plans consist of the qualified portion of the PPP in the U.S. and material non-U.S. pension plans, including plans in Germany, the United Kingdom, Japan, the Netherlands, Canada, Switzerland and Spain. In 2006, certain non-U.S. pension plans were no longer considered material and, accordingly, prior-year amounts presented have been reclassified to conform with current-year presentation. The significant nonpension postretirement benefit plans represents the U.S. nonpension postretirement benefit plan. The following table presents the components of net periodic pension cost/(income) and net periodic postretirement benefit cost/ (income) of the significant retirement-related benefit plans recognized in the Consolidated Statement of Earnings:
The following table presents the changes in the pension benefit and postretirement nonpension benefit obligations (benefit obligations) and plan assets of the significant retirement-related benefit plans:(Dollars in millions) 	 	nonPension PostretireMent  	signifiCant defined Benefit Pension PLans 	Benefit PLans   	u.s. PLan 	non-u.s. PLans 	u.s. PLanat deCeMBer 31:  	 2006 2005 2006 2005 2006  2005Change in benefit obligation: Benefit obligation at beginning of year $46,405 $44,637 $36,643 $38,694 $  5,892 $  5,894Service cost 769 682 596 694 62 45Interest cost 2,454 2,463 1,585 1,635 306 324Plan participants’ contributions — — 57 55 — —Acquisitions/divestitures, net — 57 10 (14) — Actuarial losses/(gains) (283) 2,237 (600) 2,324 8 343Benefits paid from trust (2,847) (2,896) (1,454) (1,427) — —Direct benefit payments — — (311) (288) (486) (519)Foreign exchange impact — — 3,616 (4,548) — —Medicare subsidy — — — — (9) (188)Plan amendments/curtailments/settlements — (775) (688) (482) — —Benefit obligation at end of year $46,498 $46,405 $39,454 $36,643 $  5,773 $  5,892Change in plan assets: Fair value of plan assets at  	beginning of year $48,542 $44,845 $31,148 $30,736 $    66 $   50Actual return on plan assets 7,218 4,880 3,016 4,984 3 1Employer contributions — 1,715 1,769 561 438 500Acquisitions/divestitures, net — (2) (78) 17 — —Plan participants’ contributions — — 57 55 185 171Benefits paid from trust (2,847) (2,896) (1,454) (1,427) (645) (656)Foreign exchange impact — — 3,174 (3,778) — —Fair value of plan assets at end of year $52,913 $48,542 $37,632 $31,148 $    47 $   66Funded status at end of year $ 6,415 $ 2,137 $ (1,822) $ (5,495) $(5,726) $(5,826)Unrecognized net actuarial losses n/a $11,617 n/a $12,444 n/a $  970Unrecognized prior service costs/(credits) n/a 122 n/a (705) n/a (239)Unrecognized net transition   	assets/(obligations) n/a — n/a (9) n/a —Net prepaid assets/(accrued benefit liabilities) recognized in the Consolidated  Statement of Financial Position n/a $13,876 n/a $ 6,235 n/a $(5,095)Accumulated benefit obligation $46,421 $46,184 $38,088 $35,011 n/a N/A(7)N/A—Not	applicable.	In	accordance	with	the	provisions	of	SFAS	No.	158,	the	funded	status	was	recognized	in	the	Consolidated	Statement	of	Financial	Position	and	any	unrecognized	gains/(losses),	prior	service	costs/(credits)	and	transition	assets/(obligations)	were	recognized	in	the	Consolidated	Statement	of	Stockholders’	Equity	at	December	31,	2006.	See	note	A,	“Significant	Accounting	Policies,”	on	pages	67	and	68	for	further	information.Consolidated statements ......................................................... 56 notes .....................................................................................62 A-G.......................................................................................... 62 H-M......................................................................................... 80The following table presents the amounts recognized in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position for the company’s significant retirement-related benefit plans:(Dollars in millions)		nonpension	significant	defined	postretirement	at	decemBer	31,	2006:		Benefit	pension	plans	Benefit	plansU.s.	plan	non-U.s.	plans	U.s.	planPrepaid pension assets 		$	6,415	$		4,153	$					—Current liabilities—Compensation and benefits 		—	(269)	(487)Non-current liabilities—Retirement and nonpension   	postretirement benefit obligation 		—	(5,706)	(5,239)Funded status—net 		$	6,415	$(1,822)	$(5,726)at	decemBer	31,	2005*:	Prepaid pension assets 		$13,876	$		6,458	$					—Intangible assets 	 	—	38	—Total prepaid pension assets 		13,876	6,496	—	Non-current liabilities—Retirement and nonpension   	postretirement benefit obligation 		—	(6,433)	(5,095)Accumulated losses not affecting retained earnings 		—	4,081	—Deferred tax assets (Investments	and sundry assets) 		—	2,091	—Net amount recognized 		$13,876	$		6,235	$(5,095)*	Due	to	the	adoption	of	SFAS	No.	158,	which	was	implemented	at	December	31,	2006,	year-to-year	comparibility	is	not	practical.The following table presents the pre-tax net loss, prior service costs/(credits) and transition assets/(obligations) recognized in Accumulated gains and (losses) not affecting retained earnings for the company’s  significant retirement-related benefit plans:(Dollars in millions)		nonpension	significant	defined	postretirement	at	decemBer	31,	2006:		Benefit	pension	plans	Benefit	plansU.s.	plan	non-U.s.	plans	U.s.	planNet loss 		$6,944	$11,298	$	935Prior service costs/(credits) 		61	(1,269)	(177)Transition assets/(obligations) 		—	(4)	—Total recognized in Accumulated gains and (losses)  not affecting retained earnings 		$7,005	$10,025	$	758The following table presents the estimated net loss, estimated prior service costs/(credits) and estimated transition assets/(obligations) of the company’s significant retirement-related benefit plans that will be amortized from Accumulated gains and (losses) not affecting retained earnings into net periodic cost/(income) and recorded in the Consolidated Statement of Earnings in 2007:(Dollars in millions)		nonpension	significant	defined	postretirement			Benefit	pension	plans	Benefit	plansU.s.	plan	non-U.s.	plans	U.s.	planNet loss 		$674	$	910	$	33Prior service costs/(credits) 		61	(124)	(62)Transition assets/(obligations) 		—	(1)	—
In 2006, the company redesigned certain non-U.S. defined benefit pension plans that resulted in a reduction to the PBO of $688 million and had no impact on the current-year net periodic cost/(income). The majority of the reduction was attributed to modified plans in the United Kingdom, Switzerland and the Netherlands. There were no significant amendments of the significant U.S. retirement-related benefit plans during the year ended December 31, 2006 that would have a material effect on the Consolidated Statement of Earnings.  In December 2005, the company approved amendments to the PPP and the SRP which provided that active participants will no longer accrue benefits under these plans after December 31, 2007. As a result of this action, the company recorded a curtailment charge of approximately $267 million in the Consolidated Statement of Earnings for the year ended December 31, 2005. In addition, the company recorded a reduction in the PBO balances of approximately $775 million and $13 million at December 31, 2005 for the PPP and the SRP, respectively.  In addition, in December 2005, the company amended the IBM Japan Pension Plan, which modified certain plan terms including a change in the method of calculating benefits for certain participants at December 31, 2005. This amendment did not impact the 2005 net periodic cost/(income), however, the amendment resulted in a $561 million reduction to the PBO as of December 31, 2005.assumptions used to determine  plan Financial informationUnderlying both the measurement of the PBO and net periodic cost/(income) are actuarial valuations. These valuations use participant-specific information such as salary, age and years of service, as well as certain assumptions, the most significant of which include estimates of discount rates, expected return on plan assets, rate of compensation increases, interest crediting rates and mortality rates. The company evaluates these assumptions, at a minimum, annually, and makes changes as necessary.		nonpension	postretirement		significant	defined	Benefit	pension	plans	Benefit	plans						U.s.	plan		non-U.s.	plans	U.s.	plan2006	2005	2004	2006	2005*	2004	2006	2005	2004Weighted-average assumptions   used to determine net periodic   cost/(income) for the year   ended December 31:Discount rate 5.50%	5.75%	6.00%	4.20%	4.70%	5.20%	5.50%	5.75%	6.00Expected long-term return on plan assets 8.00%	8.00%	8.00%	7.10%	7.10%	7.50%	N/a	N/A	N/ARate of compensation increase 4.00%	4.00%	4.00%	3.00%	3.00%	2.90%	N/a	N/A	N/AWeighted-average assumptions  used to determine benefit  obligation at December 31: Discount rate 5.75%	5.50%	5.75%	4.40%	4.20%	4.70%	5.75%	5.50%	5.75Rate of compensation increase 4.00%	4.00%	4.00%	2.90%	3.00%	3.10%	N/a	N/A	N/A%%N/A—Not	applicable*	Reclassified	to	conform	with	2006	presentation.Consolidated statements ......................................................... 56Notes .....................................................................................62 A-G.......................................................................................... 62H-M......................................................................................... 80 The following table presents the assumptions which can have a material impact on net periodic cost/(income) and the year-end benefit obligations for significant retirement-related benefit plans:
disCouNt rateThe discount rate assumptions used for the retirement-related benefit plans accounting reflect the yields available on high-quality, fixed income debt instruments. For the U.S. discount rate assumptions, a portfolio of corporate bonds is constructed with maturities that match the expected timing of the benefit obligation payments. In the nonU.S., where markets for high-quality long-term bonds are not generally as well developed, long-term government bonds are used as a base, to which a credit spread is added to simulate corporate bond yields at these maturities in the jurisdiction of each plan, as the benchmark for developing the respective discount rates. For the PPP, the changes in discount rate assumptions impacted both net periodic cost/(income) and the PBO. For purposes of measuring the net periodic cost/(income) for the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004, the changes in discount rate assumptions resulted in an increase in net periodic cost/(income) of $94 million, $90 million and $197 million, respectively. For purposes of measuring the PBO, the changes in discount rate assumptions resulted in a decrease in the PBO of $1,240 million at December 31, 2006 and an increase in the PBO of $1,272 million at December 31, 2005.  For the significant non-U.S. defined benefit pension plans, the changes in discount rate assumptions at December 31, 2005 resulted in an increase in 2006 net periodic cost/(income) of $274 million. Changes in discount rate assumptions at December 31, 2004 had no material impact on 2005 net periodic cost/(income). For the U.S. nonpension postretirement benefit plan, the changes in discount rate assumptions had no material impact on net periodic cost/(income) for the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004 and on the benefit obligation at December 31, 2006 and 2005.expeCted loNg-term returNs oN plaN assetsExpected long-term returns on plan assets take into account long-term expectations for future returns and investment strategy. These rates of return are developed by the company in conjunction with external advisors, are calculated using an arithmetic average and are tested for reasonableness against the historical return average by asset category, usually over a 10-year period. The use of expected long-term returns on plan assets may result in recognized pension income that is greater or less than the actual returns of those plan assets in any given year. Over time, however, the expected long-term returns are designed to approximate the actual long-term returns and therefore result in a pattern of income and expense recognition that more closely matches the pattern of the services provided by the employees. Differences between actual and expected returns are recognized over five years in the expected return on plan assets line in net periodic cost/(income) and also as a component of unrecognized gains/losses, which is recognized over the service lives of the employees in the plan, provided such amounts exceed thresholds which are based upon the obligation or the value of plan assets, as provided by accounting standards. For the PPP, the expected long-term return on plan assets of 8.0 percent remained constant for the years ended December 31, 2006 and 2005 and, consequently, had no incremental impact on net periodic cost/(income). For the material non-U.S. defined benefit pension plans, the changes in the expected long-term return on plan assets for the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004 resulted in an increase in the net periodic cost/(income) of $18 million, $140 million and $54 million, respectively. For the U.S. nonpension postretirement benefit plan, the company maintains a nominal, highly liquid trust fund balance to ensure payments are made timely. As a result, for the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004, the expected long-term return on plan assets and the actual return on those assets were not material.rate oF CompeNsatioN iNCreases  aNd mortality rateThe rate of compensation increases and mortality rates are also significant assumptions used in the actuarial model for pension accounting. The rate of compensation increases is determined by the company, based upon its long-term plans for such increases. Mortality rate assumptions are based on life expectancy and death rates for different types of participants. Mortality rates are periodically updated based on actual experience. Changes to defined benefit pension plans mortality rate assumptions increased 2006 net periodic pension cost/(income) approximately $55 million and changes to the rate of compensation increases reduced 2006 net periodic pension cost/(income) approximately $32 million. Changes to the rate of compensation increases or to mortality rate assumptions had no material impact on the net periodic cost/(income) for the years ended December 31, 2005 and 2004 and on the benefit obligation at December 31, 2006 and 2005.iNterest CreditiNg rateBenefits for certain participants in the PPP are calculated using a cash balance formula. An assumption underlying this formula is an interest crediting rate, which impacts both net periodic cost/(income) and the PBO. This assumption provides a basis for projecting the expected interest rate that participants will earn on the benefits that they are expected to receive in the following year and are based on the average from August to October of the one-year U.S. Treasury Constant Maturity yield plus one percent. For the PPP, the change in the interest crediting rate to 5.0 percent for the year ended December 31, 2006 from 3.1 percent for the year ended December 31, 2005 resulted in an increase to net periodic cost/(income) of $170 million. The change in the interest crediting rate to 3.1 percent for the year ended December 31, 2005 from 2.3 percent for the year ended December 31, 2004, resulted in an increase to net periodic cost/(income) of $55 million. The change in the interest crediting rate to 2.3 percent for the year ended December 31, 
			
2004 from 2.7 percent for the year ended December 31, 2003, resulted in a decrease to net periodic cost/(income) of $20 million.
healthCare Cost treNd rateFor nonpension postretirement benefit plan accounting, the company reviews external data and its own historical trends for healthcare costs to determine the healthcare cost trend rates. However, the healthcare cost trend rate has an insignificant effect on plan costs and obligations as a result of the terms of the plan which limit the company’s obligation to the participants. The company assumes that the healthcare cost trend rate for 2007 will be 8 percent. In addition, the company assumes that the same trend rate will decrease to 5 percent over the next four years. A one percentage point increase or decrease in the assumed healthcare cost trend rate would not have a material effect on net periodic cost/(income) or the benefit obligation as of December 31, 2006 and 2005. plan assets deFiNed beNeFit peNsioN plaNsThe company’s defined benefit pension plans’ asset allocations at December 31, 2006 and 2005 and target allocation for 2007, by asset category, are as follows:material Non-u.s. plans (Weighted-average)	plan	assets			2006	2005*	allocationAsset Category:Equity securities 62.7%	61.9%	61Debt securities 34.8	36.1	37Real estate 2.1	1.7	2Other 0.4	0.3	—Total 100.0% 100.0%	100	at	decemBer	31:	2007 target%%*	Reclassified	to	conform	with	2006	presentation.The investment objectives of the PPP portfolio (the Fund) are designed to generate returns that will enable the Fund to meet its future obligations. The precise amount for which these obligations will be settled depends on future events, including the retirement dates and life expectancy of the Plans’ participants and salary inflation. The obligations are estimated using actuarial assumptions, based on the current economic environment. The Fund’s investment strategy balances the requirement to generate returns, using potentially higher 
u.s. plans (actual allocations)	plan	assets			2006	2005	allocationAsset Category:Equity securities* 63.9%	63.8%	59Debt securities 31.2 32.9	33Real Estate 3.9 3.3	4Other 1.0 —	4Total 100.0% 100.0%	100	at	decemBer	31:	2007 target%%*		See	the	following	discussion	regarding	certain	private	market	assets,	and	future	funding	commitments	thereof,	that	are	not	as	liquid	as	the	rest	of	the	publicly	traded	securities.Consolidated statements ......................................................... 56Notes .....................................................................................62 A-G.......................................................................................... 62 H-M......................................................................................... 80yielding assets such as equity securities, with the need to control risk in the Fund with less volatile assets, such as fixed-income securities. Risks include, among others, inflation, volatility in equity values and changes in interest rates that could cause the Plans to become underfunded, thereby increasing their dependence on contributions from the company. Within each asset class, careful consideration is given to balancing the portfolio among industry sectors, geographies, interest rate sensitivity, dependence on economic growth, currency and other factors that affect investment returns. The assets are managed by professional investment firms, as well as by investment professionals who are employees of the company. They are bound by precise mandates and are measured against specific benchmarks. Among these managers, consideration is given, but not limited to, balancing security concentration, issuer concentration, investment style and reliance on particular active and passive investment strategies. Market liquidity risks are tightly controlled, with only a small percentage of the PPP portfolio invested in private market assets consisting of private equities and private real estate investments, which are less liquid than publicly traded securities. The PPP included private market assets comprising approximately 10.2 percent and 10.5 percent of total assets at December 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively. The target allocation for private market assets in 2007 is 10.2 percent. As of December 31, 2006, the Fund has $3,821 million in commitments for future private market investments to be made over a number of years. These commitments are expected to be funded from plan assets. Derivatives are primarily used to hedge currency, adjust portfolio duration and reduce specific market risks. 	Equity securities include IBM common stock in the amounts of $159 million (0.3 percent of total PPP plan assets) at December 31, 2006 and $139 million (0.3 percent of total PPP plan assets) at December 31, 2005. Outside the U.S., the investment objectives are similar, subject to local regulations. In some countries, a higher percentage allocation to fixed income securities is required. In others, the responsibility for managing the investments typically lies with a board that may include up to 50 percent of members elected by employees and retirees. This can result in slight differences compared with the strategies previously described. Generally, these non-U.S. funds do not invest in illiquid assets, such as private equities, and their use of derivatives is usually limited to currency hedging, adjusting portfolio durations and reducing specific market risks. There was no significant change in the investment strategies of these plans during either 2006 or 2005.expected Contributions deFiNed beNeFit peNsioN plaNsIt is the company’s general practice to fund amounts for pensions sufficient to meet the minimum requirements set forth in applicable employee benefits laws and local tax laws. From time to time, the company contributes additional amounts as it deems appropriate.  The company contributed approximately $1,769 million and $561 million in cash to the material non-U.S. plans during the years ended December 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively. During the year ended December 31, 2005, the company contributed approximately $1,715 million in cash to the qualified portion of the PPP. In 2007, the company is not legally required to make any contributions to the PPP. However, depending on market conditions, or other factors, the company may elect to make discretionary contributions to the qualified portion of the PPP during the year.  The Pension Protection Act of 2006 (the Act), enacted into law in 2006, is a comprehensive reform package that, among other provisions, increases pension funding requirements for certain U.S. defined benefit plans, provides guidelines for measuring pension plan assets and pension obligations for funding purposes and raises tax deduction limits for contributions to retirement-related benefit plans. The additional funding requirements by the Act apply to plan years beginning after December 31, 2007. The adoption of the Act is not expected to have a material effect on the company’s minimum mandatory contributions to its PPP.  In 2007, the company estimates contributions to its non-U.S. plans to be approximately $560 million, which will be mainly contributed to defined benefit pension plans in Germany, the Netherlands, Spain, Switzerland, Sweden and the United Kingdom. These 2007 contributions represent legally mandated minimum contributions to the company’s non-U.S. plans. The company could elect to contribute more than the legally mandated amount based on market conditions or other factors. NoNpeNsioN postretiremeNt beNeFit plaNsThe U.S. nonpension postretirement benefit plan is reviewed in order to determine the amount of company contributions, if any. In 2007, the company expects its contributions to the U.S. nonpension postretirement benefit plan will approximate the total expected benefit payments.expected benefit payments deFiNed beNeFit peNsioN plaN expeCted paymeNtsThe following table presents the total expected benefit payments to defined benefit pension plan participants. These payments have been estimated based on the same assumptions used to measure the plans’ PBO at December 31, 2006 and include benefits attributable to estimated future compensation increases.
(Dollars in millions)										total					qUalified	non-qUalified	qUalified	non-qUalified	expected					U.s.	plan	U.s.	plan	non-U.s.	plans	non-U.s.	plans	Benefit					payments	payments	payments	payments	payments2007 	 	 	$	3,219*		$	78	$1,636	$		310	$	5,2432008 	 	 	3,050	80	1,684	312	5,1262009 	 	 	3,073	82	1,742	307	5,2042010 	 	 	3,126	85	1,780	308	5,2992011 	 	 	3,168	89	1,832	307	5,396482	9,756	1,577	28,268*		The	2007	total	expected	benefit	payments	to	defined	benefit	pension	plan	participants	of	the	qualified	portion	of	the	PPP	include	approximately	$160	million	of	the	$320	million	related	to	the	PPP	lawsuit	settlement;	the	remaining	settlement	amount	will	be	spread	over	a	10-year	period	starting	in	2007.	See	note	O,	“Contingencies	and	Commitments,”	on	page	89	for	further	information.The 2007 expected benefit payments to defined benefit pension plan participants not covered by the respective plan assets represent a component of Compensation and benefits, within Current liabilities, in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position.NoNpeNsioN postretiremeNt beNeFit plaN expeCted paymeNtsThe following table reflects the total expected benefit payments to nonpension postretirement benefit plan participants, as well as the expected receipt of the company’s share of the Medicare subsidy described below. These payments have been estimated based on the same assumptions used to measure the company’s benefit obligation at year end.(Dollars in millions)								less:	U.s.	plan		total								expected	expected								U.s.	plan	medicare	Benefit							payments	sUBsidy	payments2007 	 	 	 	 $		518	$28	$		4902008 	 	 	 	 504	33	4712009 	 	 	 	 492	37	4552010 	 	 	 	 482	40	4422011 	 	 	 	 473	42	4312012-2016 	 	 	 2,276	—	2,276
The 2007 expected benefit payments to nonpension postretirement benefit plan participants not covered by the plan assets represent a component of Compensation and benefits, within Current liabilities, in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position.mediCare presCriptioN drug aCtin connection with the medicare prescription drug improvement and modernization act of 2003, the company is expected to receive a federal subsidy of approximately $340 million to subsidize the prescription drug coverage provided by the U.S. nonpension postretirement benefit plan over a period of approximately six years beginning in 2006. Approximately $204 million of the subsidy will be used by the company to reduce its obligation and expense related to the U.S. nonpension postretirement benefit plan. The company will contribute the remaining subsidy of $136 million to the plan in order to reduce contributions required by the participants. The company received $27 million of the subsidy during the year ended December 31, 2006, which was utilized to reduce the company contributions for prescription drug-related coverage.  In accordance with the provision of FASB Staff Position FSP FAS 106-2, “Accounting and Disclosure Requirements Related to the Medicare Prescription Drug, Improvement and Modernization Act of 2003,” the company has included the impact of its portion of the subsidy in the determination of APBO for the U.S. nonpension postretirement benefit plan for the years ended December 31, 2006 and 2005. The impact of the subsidy resulted in a reduction in the benefit obligation of approximately $154 million and $188 million, at December 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively, and a reduction of net periodic cost/ (income) of $24 million for the year ended December 31, 2006 and there was no reduction for the year ended December 31, 2005.other plaN iNFormatioNAt December 31, 2005 the company elected not to fund certain of the company’s non-U.S. plans that had unfunded positions to the accumulated benefit obligation (ABO) level, which required the company to record a minimum pension liability. As of December 31, 2005, the company recorded a reduction in the minimum pension liability of $1,726 million and an increase to stockholders’ equity of $436 million. 
Consolidated statements ......................................................... 56Notes .....................................................................................62 A-G.......................................................................................... 62 H-M......................................................................................... 80The differences between these amounts and the amounts included in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position and Consolidated Statement of Stockholders’ Equity relate to the non-material plans. This accounting transaction did not impact 2005 net periodic cost/ (income). The minimum pension liability at December 31, 2006 of $2,348 million was eliminated upon adoption of SFAS No. 158.  The table on page 111 presents information for significant pension plans with an ABO in excess of plan assets. For a more detailed presentation of the funded status of the company’s significant pension plans, see the table on page 102.(Dollars in millions)												2006	2005benefit		Benefitat	decemBer	31:				obligation	plan	assets	oBligation	plan	assetsPlans with PBO in excess of plan assets 	 	 $15,181 $ 7,866 $26,354	$17,241Plans with ABO in excess of plan assets 	 	 14,027 7,093 24,986	17,241Plans with assets in excess of PBO 	 	 72,111 82,679 58,031 62,450W. segmeNt iNFormatioNthe company uses business insight and its broad range of it capabilities to create client- and industry-specific information solutions. The company operates primarily in a single industry using several segments that create value by offering solutions that include, either singularly or in some combination, services, software, hardware and financing. Organizationally, the company’s major operations comprise a Global Technology Services segment; a Global Business Services segment; a Software segment; a predominantly hardware product segment—Systems and Technology Group; and a Global Financing segment. The segments represent components of the company for which separate financial information is available that is utilized on a regular basis by the chief executive officer in determining how to allocate the company’s resources and evaluate performance. The segments are determined based on several factors, including client base, homogeneity of products, technology, delivery channels and similar economic characteristics. Information about each segment’s business and the products and services that generate each segment’s revenue is located in the “Description of Business” section of the Management Discussion on page 19, and “Segment Details,” on pages 29 to 32.  In 2004, the company combined the Systems Group segment and the Technology Group segment and formed the Systems and Technology Group segment. In the second quarter of 2005, the company sold its Personal Computing business which was previously a part of the Personal Systems Group. The two remaining units of the Personal Systems Group, Retail Store Solutions and Printing Systems, were combined with the Systems and Technology Group. Personal Computing Division financial results are displayed as part of the segment disclosures, in a manner consistent with the segment disclosures.  In the first quarter of 2006, the company made changes to its management system. This included the transfer of products and services from the former Enterprise Investments segment to other reportable segments and the separation of the prior Global Services segment into the two new reportable segments: Global Technology Services and Global Business Services. In addition to the creation of two new reportable segments, there are two primary differences to previously reported information. First, the Business Transformation Outsourcing (BTO) business was aligned within the Global Technology Services segment. This brought the company’s outsourcing businesses together, and drives synergies within the company’s offerings and delivery capabilities. U.S. Federal BTO remained with the U.S. Federal business within Global Business Services, to continue to leverage the synergy in the company’s Federal offerings and delivery capabilities. Secondly, the Application Management Services (AMS) business was consolidated under the Global Business Services segment. As a result, the AMS business for custom and legacy applications previously reported in Strategic Outsourcing revenue is now included in Global Business Services. Previously reported segment information has been restated for all periods presented to reflect those changes in the company’s reportable segments. Segment revenue and pre-tax income include transactions between the segments that are intended to reflect an arm’s-length transfer price. Hardware and software that is used by the Global Technology Services segment in outsourcing engagements is primarily sourced internally from the Systems and Technology Group and Software segments. For the internal use of IT services, the Global Technology Services segment and the Global Business Services segment recover cost, as well as a reasonable fee, reflecting the arm’s-length value of providing the services. The Global Services segments enter into arm’s-length leases and loans at prices equivalent to market rates with the Global Financing segment to facilitate the acquisition of equipment used in services engagements. All internal transaction prices are reviewed annually, and reset if appropriate. The company uses shared resources concepts to realize economies of scale and efficient use of resources. As a result, a considerable amount of expense is shared by all of the company’s segments. This expense represents sales coverage, marketing and support functions such as Accounting, Treasury, Procurement, Legal, Human Resources and Billing and Collections. Where practical, shared expenses are allocated based on measurable drivers of expense, e.g., headcount. When a clear and measurable driver cannot be identified, shared expenses are allocated on a financial basis that is consistent with the company’s management system; e.g., advertising is allocated based on the gross profits of the segments. The unallocated corporate amounts arising from certain divestitures, indirect infrastructure reductions, miscellaneous tax items and the unallocated corporate expense pool are recorded in net income but are not allocated to the segments. The following tables reflect the results of continuing operations of the segments and the Personal Computing Division consistent with the company’s management system. These results are not necessarily a depiction that is in conformity with GAAP; e.g., employee retirement plan costs are developed using actuarial assumptions on a country-by-country basis and allocated to the segments based on maNagemeNt system segmeNt VieW(Dollars in millions)					gloBal	gloBal		systems	and			personal				technology	BUsiness	technology		gloBal		compUting	total	for	the	year	ended	decemBer	31:	services	services	groUp	software	financing	division	segments2006:External revenue $ 32,322 $1 5,969 $ 21,970 $ 18,161 $ 2,365 $      — $  90,787Internal revenue 1,763 1,373 1,168 2,249 1,527 — 8,080Total revenue $ 34,086 $ 17,341 $ 23,138 $ 20,409 $ 3,892 $      — $  98,867Pre-tax income/(loss)  $  3,288 $  1,706 $  1,739 $  5,493 $ 1,455 $      — $  13,682Revenue year-to-year change 1.4% 0.6% 4.7% 8.5% (0.4)% Nm 0.3Pre-tax income year-to-year change 25.6% 116.9% (7.6)% 14.9% (8.1)% Nm 19.1Pre-tax income margin 9.6% 9.8% 7.5% 26.9% 37.4% Nm 13.82005:External revenue $31,501	$15,906	$20,981	$16,830	$2,401	$	2,876	$	90,495Internal revenue 2,102	1,339	1,118	1,979	1,506	33	8,077Total revenue $33,603	$17,245	$22,099	$18,809	$3,907	$	2,909	$	98,572Pre-tax income/(loss)  $	2,619	$			786	$	1,883	$	4,779	$1,583	$			(165)	$	11,485Revenue year-to-year change 3.5%	(1.9)%	4.9%	4.8%	0.3%	NM	(5.0)Pre-tax income year-to-year change (10.9)%	(28.9)%	(7.9)%	19.1%	8.6%	NM	(0.6)Pre-tax income margin 7.8%	4.6%	8.5%	25.4%	40.5%	NM	11.72004:External revenue $30,082	$16,201	$19,973	$16,141	$2,607	$10,737	$	95,741Internal revenue 2,376	1,373	1,095	1,813	1,287	129	8,073Total revenue $32,458	$17,574	$21,068	$17,954	$3,894	$10,866	$103,814Pre-tax income/(loss) $	2,940	$	1,105	$	2,045	$	4,014	$1,458	$				(10)	$	11,552Revenue year-to-year change 11.3%	3.0%	8.6%	6.7%	(5.6)%	14.4%	8.1Pre-tax income year-to-year change 8.0%	(2.0)%	27.1%	26.3%	26.6%	97.1%	22.4Pre-tax income margin 9.1%	6.3%	9.7%	22.4%	37.4%	(0.1)%		11.1%%%%%%% %%NM—Not	meaningfulConsolidated statements ......................................................... 56Notes .....................................................................................62 A-G.......................................................................................... 62H-M......................................................................................... 80headcount. Different amounts could result if actuarial assumptions that are unique to the segment were used. Performance measurement is based on income before income taxes (pre-tax income). These results are used, in part, by management, both in evaluating the performance of, and in allocating resources to, each of the segments. 
reconciliations of ibm as reported(Dollars in millions)for	the	year	ended	decemBer	31:	2006			2005		2004Revenue:Total reportable segments $98,867	$98,572	$103,814Other revenue and   	adjustments 637		639	552Elimination of internal  	revenue (8,080)		(8,077)	(8,073)Total IBM consolidated   revenue $91,424 $91,134	$		96,293(Dollars in millions)for	the	year	ended	decemBer	31:	2006		2005	2004Pre-tax income:Total reportable segments $13,682	$11,485	$ 11,552	Elimination of internal  	transactions (171)		(168)	(106)Unallocated corporate  	amounts (194)		909	(777)Total IBM consolidated  pre-tax income from  continuing operations $13,317 $12,226	$	10,669Within pre-tax income from continuing operations, unallocated corporate amounts in 2005 include the gain from the sale of the company’s Personal Computing business to Lenovo, the impact of the legal settlement with Microsoft Corporation, pension curtailment related charges and unallocated charges related to the company’s incremental restructuring actions in the second quarter. The year 2004 includes charges for the partial settlement of certain legal claims against the company’s PPP and charges for certain litigation-related expenses.immaterial itemsinvestment in equity alliances and equity  alliance gains/(losses)The investments in equity alliances and the resulting gains and (losses) from these investments that are attributable to the segments do not have a material effect on the financial position or the financial results of the segments. segmeNt assets aNd other itemsglobal technology services assets are primarily accounts receivable, plant, property and equipment including those associated with the segment’s outsourcing business, goodwill, acquired intangible assets, deferred services arrangement transition costs and maintenance parts inventory. Global Business Services assets are primarily goodwill and accounts receivable. Software segment assets are mainly goodwill, acquired intangible assets, accounts receivable, plant, property and equipment and investment in capitalized software. The assets of the Systems and Technology Group segment and the Personal Computing Division are primarily plant, property and equipment and manufacturing inventory. The assets of the Global Financing segment are primarily financing receivables and fixed assets under operating leases.  To accomplish the efficient use of the company’s space and equipment, it usually is necessary for several segments to share plant, property and equipment assets. Where assets are shared, landlord ownership of the assets is assigned to one segment and is not allocated to each user segment. This is consistent with the company’s management system and is reflected accordingly in the table on page 114. In those cases, there will not be a precise correlation between segment pre-tax income and segment assets. Similarly, the depreciation amounts reported by each segment are based on the assigned landlord ownership and may not be consistent with the amounts that are included in the segments’ pre-tax income. The amounts that are included in pre-tax income reflect occupancy charges from the landlord segment and are not specifically identified by the management reporting system. Capital expenditures that are reported by each segment also are consistent with the landlord ownership basis of asset assignment. The Global Financing segment amounts on page 114 for Interest income and Cost of Global Financing interest expense reflect the interest income and interest expense associated with the Global Financing business, including the intercompany financing activities discussed on page 49, as well as the income from the investment in cash and marketable securities. The explanation of the difference between Cost of Global Financing and Interest expense for segment presentation versus presentation in the Consolidated Statement of Earnings is included on page 52 of the Management Discussion.
maNagemeNt system segmeNt VieW(Dollars in millions)							gloBal	gloBal		systems	and			personal					technology	BUsiness	technology		gloBal	compUting	total	for	the	year	ended	decemBer	31:		services	services	groUp	software	financing	division	segments2006: Assets  $ 14,483 $ 6,517 $ 7,924 $ 9,262 $ 33,945 $    — $ 72,130Depreciation/amortization   	of intangibles 1,575 136 1,024 632 1,691 — 5,058Capital expenditures/investments   	in intangibles 1,714 43 777 423 2,514 — 5,470Interest income — — — — 2,265 — 2,265Interest expense — — — — 792 — 7922005: Assets  $11,809	$6,229	$8,304	$6,485	$31,165	$			—	$63,992Depreciation/amortization   	of intangibles 1,663	160	1,272	672	1,923	17	5,707Capital expenditures/investments  	in intangibles 1,635	21	642	389	2,273	18	4,978Interest income —	—	—	—	2,183	—	2,183Interest expense —	—	—	—	617	—	6172004: Assets  $12,477	$6,647	$8,952	$5,280	$34,589	$1,660	$69,605Depreciation/amortization   	of intangibles 1,573	141	1,189	658	2,013	76	5,650Capital expenditures/investments  	in intangibles 1,901	52	979	440	2,229	60	5,661Interest income —	—	—	—	2,355	—	2,355Interest expense —	—	—	—	584	—	584Consolidated statements ......................................................... 56Notes .....................................................................................62 A-G.......................................................................................... 62 H-M......................................................................................... 80
reconciliations of ibm as reported(Dollars in millions)at	decemBer	31:	2006		2005	2004Assets:Total reportable segments $ 72,130	$	63,992	$	69,605Elimination of internal  	transactions (5,919)		(5,082)	(5,814)Unallocated amounts:  	Cash and marketable  	 securities 10,191	12,381	9,421 	Notes and accounts  	 receivable 3,743	3,282	3,872 	Deferred tax assets 5,299	3,311	6,731 	Plant, other property  	 and equipment 3,091	3,069	3,523 	Pension assets 10,614	20,613	20,381 	Other 4,086	4,182	3,284Total IBM consolidated $103,234 $105,748	$111,003reVeNue by Classes oF  similar produCts or serViCesFor the personal Computing division, software, global business services and global Financing segments, the data on page 112 represents the revenue contributions from the products or services that are contained in the segments and that are basically similar in nature. The following table provides external revenue for similar classes of products or services within the Systems and Technology Group and Global Technology Services segments. The Systems and Technology Group segment’s Technology original equipment manufacturer (OEM) hardware comprises revenue primarily from the sale of semiconductors. Technology Services comprise the Systems and Technology Group’s circuit design business for its OEM clients, as well as the component design services, strategic outsourcing of clients’ design team work and technology and manufacturing consulting services associated with the Engineering & Technology Services Division. The Systems and Technology Group segment’s Storage comprises revenue from TotalStorage disk storage systems and tape subsystems. The following table is presented on a continuing operations basis. (Dollars in millions)			consolidatedfor	the	year	ended	decemBer	31:	2006	2005	2004Global Technology Services:  	Services $26,281	$25,633	$24,386 	Maintenance 5,986	5,868	5,696 	Software 56	—	—Systems and Technology   	Group: 	 Servers $13,144	$12,900	$12,460 	 Storage 3,558	3,345	2,901 	 Technology OEM 2,930	2,391	2,131 	 Printing Systems 1,050	1,136	1,243 	 Retail Store Solutions 761	627	814 	 Technology Services 526	582	424major ClieNtsNo single client represents 10 percent or more of the company’s total revenue. geographiC iNFormatioN the following provides information for those countries that are 10 percent or more of the specific category.revenue*(Dollars in millions)for	the	year	ended	decemBer	31:	2006	2005	2004United States $35,917	$34,951	$35,637Japan  9,638	10,753	12,295Other countries 45,869	45,430	48,361Total $91,424 $91,134	$96,293*	Revenue	is	attributed	to	countries	based	on	location	of	client.	Net plant, property and equipment(Dollars in millions)at	decemBer	31:	2006	2005	2004United States $ 6,708 $	6,907	$	7,516Japan  844 922	1,286Other countries 4,849	4,327	4,866Total $12,401 $12,156	$13,668x. subsequeNt eVeNtson january 25, 2007, the company and ricoh Company announced an agreement to form a joint venture, the infoprint solutions Company (joint venture), which will be based on the company’s Printing Systems Division (a division of the Systems and Technology Group segment). The company will transfer its printer business to the joint venture and initially receive 49 percent ownership of the joint venture. The company will divest its 49 percent ownership to Ricoh over a three-year period from the closing as the joint venture evolves into a fully owned subsidiary of Ricoh. At closing, the company will receive cash from Ricoh as consideration for the initial 51 percent acquisition of the joint venture by Ricoh as well as a prepayment for the remaining 49 percent to be acquired and certain royalty and services that the company will provide the joint venture. The company will provide maintenance services for one year and other IT and business process services to the joint venture for up to five years. The royalty agreement is up to 10 years. The company will provide financing to the joint venture’s clients and business partners. This transaction is expected to close in the second quarter of 2007.  On February 5, 2007, the company sold approximately 300 million shares of Lenovo common stock with proceeds approximating $120 million. As a result of this transaction, the company’s equity in Lenovo at February 5, 2007 represented 9.9 percent of ordinary voting shares and 11.31 percent of total ownership. On January 30, 2007, the company announced that the Board of Directors approved a quarterly dividend of $0.30 per common share. The dividend is payable March 10, 2007 to shareholders of record on February 9, 2007.
FiVe-year ComparisoN oF seleCted FiNaNCial dataiNterNatioNal busiNess maChiNes CorporatioN aNd subsidiary CompaNies(Dollars in millions except per share amounts)for	the	year:			2006	2005	2004	2003	2002Revenue 	$91,424	$91,134	$96,293	$89,131	$81,186Income from continuing operations 	 $ 9,416		$	7,994	$	7,497	$	6,588	$	4,156Income/(loss) from discontinued operations 	76	(24)	(18)	(30)	(1,780)Income before cumulative effect of change  	in accounting principle 	 9,492	7,970	7,479	6,558	2,376Cumulative effect of change in accounting principle*  —	(36)	—	—	—Net income 	 $ 9,492 	$	7,934	$	7,479	$	6,558	$	2,376Earnings/(loss) per share of common stock: 	Assuming dilution: 	 	Continuing operations 	 $  6.06		$		4.91	$		4.39	$		3.76	$		2.43 	 	Discontinued operations 	 0.05	(0.01)	(0.01)	(0.02)	(1.04) 	 	Before cumulative effect of change 	 	 	in accounting principle 	 6.11	4.90	4.38	3.74	1.39 	 	Cumulative effect of change in   	 	 	accounting principle* 	 —	(0.02)	—	—	—Total  	 $  6.11 	$		4.87	$		4.38	$		3.74	$		1.39 	Basic: 	 	Continuing operations 	 $  6.15		$		4.99	$		4.48	$		3.83	$		2.44 	 	Discontinued operations 	 0.05	(0.02)	(0.01)	(0.02)	(1.05) 	 	Before cumulative effect of change 	 	 	in accounting principle 	 6.20	4.98	4.47	3.81	1.40 	 	Cumulative effect of change 	 	 	in accounting principle* 	 —	(0.02)	—	—	—Total  	 $  6.20 	$		4.96	$		4.47	$		3.81	$		1.40Cash dividends paid on common stock 	$ 1,683		$	1,250	$	1,174	$	1,085	$	1,005 	Per share of common stock 	 1.10	0.78	0.70	0.63	0.59Investment in plant, rental machines  	and other property 	 $ 4,362		$	3,842	$	4,368	$	4,398	$	5,022Return on stockholders’ equity 	 30.8%	24.5%	24.4%	24.5%	9.8%at	end	of	year:			2006	2005	2004	2003	2002Total assets 	$103,234	$105,748	$111,003	$106,021	$97,814Net investment in plant, rental machines  	and other property 	 14,440	13,756	15,175	14,689	14,440Working capital 	 4,569	10,509	7,357	7,205	6,927Total debt 	 22,682	22,641	22,927	23,632	26,017Stockholders’ equity 	 28,506	33,098	31,688	29,531	24,112*	Reflects	implementation	of	FASB	Interpretation	No.	47.	See	note	B,	“Accounting	Changes,”	on	page	72	for	additional	information.seleCted quarterly dataal busiNess maChiNes CorporatioN aNd subsidiary CompaNies(Dollars in millions except per share amounts and stock prices)						first	second		third		foUrth		fUll2006: 		qUarter	qUarter	qUarter	qUarter	yearRevenue 	 $20,659 $21,890 $22,617 $26,257 $91,424Gross profit 	$ 8,088 $ 9,014 $ 9,492 $11,701 $38,295Income from continuing operations 	$ 1,708 $ 2,022 $ 2,222 $ 3,464 $   9,416Income from discontinued operations 	 — — —     76      76Net income 	$ 1,708 $ 2,022 $ 2,222 $ 3,541 $  9,492Earnings per share of common stock: 	Assuming dilution: 	 	Continuing operations 	 $  1.08 $  1.30 $  1.45 $  2.26 $    	 	Discontinued operations 	 — — — 0.05 0.05Total  	 $  1.08 $  1.30 $  1.45 $  2.31 $    	Basic: 	  	 	Continuing operations 	  $  1.09  $  1.31 $  1.47 $  2.30 $    	 	Discontinued operations 	 — — — 0.05 0.05Total  	 $  1.09 $  1.31 $  1.47 $  2.35 $   Dividends per share of common stock 	 $  0.20 $  0.30 $  0.30 $  0.30 $   1.10Stock prices:+ 	High 	 $ 85.03 $ 84.45 $ 83.79 $ 97.88	 	Low  	 78.93 76.06 72.73 81.56						first	second		third		foUrth		fUll2005: 		qUarter	qUarter	qUarter	qUarter	yearRevenue 	 $22,908	$22,270	$21,529	$24,427	$91,134Gross profit 	$	8,254	$	8,775	$	8,738	$10,765	$36,532Income from continuing operations 	 $	1,407	$	1,851	$	1,516	$	3,220	$	7,994(Loss)/income from discontinued operations 	 (5)	(22)	—	3	(24)Income before cumulative effect of change 	in accounting principle 	 1,402	1,829	1,516	3,223	7,970Cumulative effect of change in accounting principle**  —	—	—	(36)	(36)Net income 	 $	1,402	$	1,829	$	1,516	$	3,187	$	7,934Earnings/(loss) per share of common stock: 	Assuming dilution: 	 	Continuing operations 	 $		0.85	$		1.14	$		0.94	$		2.01	$		 	 	Discontinued operations 	 —	(0.01)	—	—	(0.01) 	 	Before cumulative effect of change 	 	 	in accounting principle 	 0.84	1.12	0.94	2.01	 	 	Cumulative effect of change in accounting principle**	—	—	—	(0.02)	(0.02)Total  	 $   0.84 $   1.12 $   0.94 $   1.99 $   6.06*6.11*6.15*6.20*	4.91*4.90*4.87* 	Basic: 	 	 	  	 	Continuing operations 	 	$		0.86	$		1.15	$		0.95	$		2.04	$		4.99* 	 	Discontinued operations 	 	—	(0.01)	—	—	(0.02)* 	 	Before cumulative effect of change 	 	 	in accounting principle 	 0.86	1.14	0.95	2.04	 	 	Cumulative effect of change in accounting principle** —	—	—	(0.02)	(0.02)Total  	 $   0.86 $   1.14 $   0.95 $   2.02 $   Dividend per share of common stock 	 $		0.18	$		0.20	$		0.20	$		0.20	$		0.78Stock prices:+ 	High 	 $	99.10	$	91.76	$	85.11	$	89.94	 	Low  	 89.09	71.85	74.16	78.70	4.98*4.96**		Earnings	Per	Share	(EPS)	in	each	quarter	is	computed	using	the	weighted-average	number	of	shares	outstanding	during	that	quarter	while	EPS	for	the	full	year	is	computed	using	the	weighted-average	number	of	shares	outstanding	during	the	year.	Thus,	the	sum	of	the	four	quarter’s	EPS	does	not	equal	the	full-year	EPS.**	Reflects	implementation	of	FASB	Interpretation	No.	47.	See	note	B,	“Accounting	Changes,”	on	page	72	for	additional	information.+	The	stock	prices	reflect	the	high	and	low	prices	for	IBM’s	common	stock	on	the	New	York	Stock	Exchange	composite	tape	for	the	last	two	years.				perFormaNCe graphsiNterNatioNal busiNess maChiNes CorporatioN aNd subsidiary CompaNiesComparisoN oF oNe- FiVe- aNd teN-year CumulatiVe total returN For ibm,  s&p 500 stoCK iNdex aNd s&p iNFormatioN teChNology iNdex
The following graphs compare the one- five- and ten-year cumulative total returns for IBM common stock with the comparable cumulative return of certain Standard & Poor’s (S&P) indices. Due to the fact that IBM is a company included in the S&P 500 Stock Index, the SEC’s rules require the use of that index for the required five-year graph. Under those rules, the second index used for comparison may be a 									2005	2006IBM Common Stock 				$100.00	$119.77S & P 500 Index 				100.00	115.80S & P Information Technology Index 				100.00	108.42oNe-yearpublished industry or line-of-business index. The S&P 500 Information Technology Index is such an index. Each graph assumes $100 invested on December 31 (of the initial year shown in the graph) in IBM common stock and $100 invested on the same date in each of the S&P indices. The comparisons assume that all dividends are reinvested.
1997	1998	1999	2000	2001	2002		2003	2004		2005	2006IBM Common Stock $100.00	$139.33	$247.27	$290.55	$229.99	$328.88	$212.23	$255.73	$274.12	$230.72	$276.33 l S & P 500 Index 100.00	133.36	171.47	207.56	188.86	166.24	129.50	166.65	184.78	193.86	 224.48S & P Information 	  	 	Technology Index 	100.00	128.53	228.97	409.27	241.87	179.31	112.22	165.22	169.44	171.12		185.53FiVe-year				2001	2002		2003	2004		2005	2006l IBM Common Stock $100.00	$64.53	$	77.76	$	83.35	$	70.15	$	84.02l S & P 500 Index 100.00	77.90	100.25	111.15	116.61	 135.03l S & P Information Technology Index 100.00	62.59	92.14	94.50	95.44		103.47teN-yearboard oF direCtors aNd seNior exeCutiVe oFFiCersiNterNatioNal busiNess maChiNes CorporatioN aNd subsidiary CompaNies
board oF direCtorsCathleeN blaCKPresident  Hearst MagazinesKeNNeth i. CheNaultChairman and Chief Executive Officer American Express CompanyjuergeN dormaNNChairman of the Board ABB Ltd miChael l. esKeWChairman and Chief Executive Officer United Parcel Service, Inc.shirley aNN jaCKsoNPresident Rensselaer Polytechnic InstituteseNior exeCutiVe oFFiCersmiChael e. daNielsSenior Vice President  Global Technology Services NiCholas m. doNoFrioExecutive Vice President  Innovation and Technologydouglas t. elixSenior Vice President and  Group Executive  Sales and Distributionjesse j. greeNe, jr. Vice President and Treasurerj. bruCe harreldSenior Vice President  Marketing and Strategypaul m. horNSenior Vice President  ResearchjoN C. iWataSenior Vice President  CommunicationsmiNoru maKiharaSenior Corporate Advisor and  former Chairman  Mitsubishi CorporationluCio a. NotoManaging Partner Midstream Partners LLCjames W. oWeNsChairman and Chief Executive Officer Caterpillar Inc.samuel j. palmisaNoChairman, President and  Chief Executive Officer IBMjohN e. Kelly iiiSenior Vice President  Technology and Intellectual PropertymarK loughridgeSenior Vice President and  Chief Financial Officerj. raNdall maCdoNaldSenior Vice President  Human ResourcessteVeN a. millsSenior Vice President and  Group Executive Software Grouprobert W. moFFat, jr.Senior Vice President  Integrated OperationsdaNiel e. o’doNNellVice President,  Assistant General Counsel  and SecretaryjoaN e. speroPresident Doris Duke Charitable FoundationsidNey taurelChairman and Chief Executive Officer  Eli Lilly and CompanyCharles m. Vest*President Emeritus Massachusetts Institute of TechnologyloreNzo h. zambraNoChairman and Chief Executive Officer CEMEX, S.A.B. de C.V. *	Term	on	the	Board	ends	on	April	24,	2007samuel j. palmisaNoChairman, President and  Chief Executive OfficerVirgiNia m. romettySenior Vice President  Global Business ServicesliNda s. saNFordSenior Vice President  Enterprise On Demand Transformation timothy s. shaughNessyVice President and Controllerrobert C. WeberSenior Vice President  Legal and Regulatory Affairs, and General CounselWilliam m. zeitlerSenior Vice President and  Group Executive  Systems and Technology Group
ibm stockholder servicesStockholders with questions about their accounts should contact:Computershare Trust Company, N.A. P.O. Box 43072 Providence, Rhode Island 02940-3072 (888) IBM-6700Investors residing outside the United States, Canada and Puerto Rico should  call (781) 575-2727. Stockholders can also reach Computershare Trust Company, N.A. via e-mail at: ibm@computershare.comHearing-impaired stockholders with access to a telecommunications device (TDD) can communicate directly with Computershare Trust Company, N.A., by calling (800) 490-1493. Stockholders residing outside the United States, Canada and  Puerto Rico should call (781) 575-2694.ibm on the internetTopics featured in this Annual Report can be found via the IBM home page on the Internet (http://www.ibm.com). Financial results, news on IBM products, services and other activities can also be found via that address. Stockholders of record can receive online account information and answers to  frequently asked questions regarding stockholder accounts via the internet (http:// www.ibm.com/investor). Stockholders of record can also consent to receive future IBM Annual Reports  and Proxy Statements online through the Internet at this site.IBM files reports with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), including annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports  on Form 8-K and any other filings required by the SEC. Certifications by IBM’s Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer are included as exhibits to  the company’s SEC reports (including the company’s Form 10-K filed in 2007),  and Certifications by IBM’s Chief Executive Officer are included in the company’s  filings with the New York Stock Exchange and the Chicago Stock Exchange (including filings in 2006).IBM’s website (http://www.ibm.com) contains a significant amount of information about IBM, including the company’s annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and all amendments to those reports as soon as reasonably practicable after such material is electronically filed with or furnished to the SEC (http://www.ibm.com/investor). These materials are available free of charge on or through our website.The public may read and copy any materials the company files with the SEC at  the SECs Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, DC 20549. The public may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. The SEC maintains an Internet site (http://www.sec.gov) that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC.ibm investor services programThe Investor Services Program brochure outlines a number of services provided  for IBM stockholders and potential IBM investors, including the reinvestment of dividends, direct purchase and the deposit of IBM stock certificates for safekeeping. Call (888) IBM-6700 for a copy of the brochure. Investors residing outside the  United States, Canada and Puerto Rico should call (781) 575-2727.Investors with other requests may write to: IBM Stockholder Relations New Orchard Road Armonk, New York 10504ibm stockIBM common stock is listed on the New York Stock Exchange, the Chicago Stock Exchange, and outside the United States.stockholder informationinternational business machines corporation and subsidiary companiesannual meetingThe IBM Annual Meeting of Stockholders will be held on Tuesday, April 24, 2007, at 10 a.m. in the Grand Ballroom of the Knoxville Convention Center, 701 Henley Street, Knoxville, Tennessee.stockholder communicationsStockholders in the United States and Canada can get quarterly financial results, listen to a summary of the Annual Meeting remarks and hear voting results from the meeting by calling (800) IBM-7800. Callers can also request printed copies of the information via mail or fax. Stockholders residing outside the United States, Canada and Puerto Rico should call (402) 573-9861.literature for ibm stockholdersThe following literature on IBM is available without charge from: Computershare Trust Company, N.A. P.O. Box 43072 Providence, Rhode Island 02940-3072 (888) IBM-6700Investors residing outside the United States, Canada and Puerto Rico should  call (781) 575-2727.The Form 10-K Annual Report and Form 10-Q Quarterly Reports to the SEC provide additional information on IBM’s business. The 10-K report is released by the end of February; 10-Q reports are released by early May, August and November.An audio cassette recording of the 2006 Annual Report will be available for sightimpaired stockholders in June.“Collaboration That Matters: IBM 2006 Corporate Responsibility Report”  details our proactive approach to corporate citizenship, reflecting on our corporate commitment to making a significant impact on the key challenges that face our company and the world. It outlines our results and strategies delivered by more  than 350,000 employees across 170 countries worldwide and covers areas of  performance from accessibility to supply chain practices, from diversity to climate protection, outlining our progressive approach to community engagement and  utilizing our innovative technologies applied against a range of societal problems from education to health care, disaster relief and recovery to economic security. Further information is also available on IBM’s corporate responsibility reporting website: (www.ibm.com/ibm/responsibility).general informationFor answers to general questions about IBM from within the continental  United States, call (800) IBM-4YOU. From outside the United States, Canada  and Puerto Rico, call (404) 238-1234.corporate officesInternational Business Machines Corporation New Orchard Road Armonk, New York 10504 (914) 499-1900The IBM Annual Report is printed on recycled paper and is recyclable.Access360, AIX, Ascential, BladeCenter, Buildforge, Candle, Collation, Cynaea, DataPower, Domino, IBM, Informix, Isogon, Lotus, Notes, POWER, POWER5+, POWER6, Rational, System i, System p, System x, System z, Tivoli, Trigo, Venetica and WebSphere are trademarks of International Business Machines Corporation  or its wholly owned subsidiaries. Java is a trademark of Sun Microsystems, Inc. Linux is a trademark of Linus Torvalds. Windows is a trademark of Microsoft Corporation. UNIX is a registered trademark of The Open Group in the United States and other countries. Other company, product and service names may be trademarks or service marks of others. Printed in the U.S.A. 	G507-0501-14
2006 Annual Report 	2006 Annual Report						subsidiary?companies10 	2006	Annual	Report			8 	2006 Annual Reportmanagement?discussioninternational?business?macHines?corporation?and?subsidiary?companies?international	Year	in	Review...................................................................... 22	Prior	Year	in	Review	............................................................. 37	Discontinued	Operations	..................................................... 41	Other	Information	................................................................ 41 	Global	Financing	.................................................................. 49 report?of?management?.........................................................54 report?of?independent?registered?public?accounting?Firm?....55 consolidated?statements?.......................................................5612 	2006	Annual	Report11international11ManageMent Discussioninternational business Machines corporation anD subsiDiary coMpaniesManageMent Discussioninternational business Machines corporation anD subsiDiary coMpanies	Year	in	Review...................................................................... 22	Prior	Year	in	Review	............................................................. 37	Discontinued	Operations	..................................................... 41	Other	Information	................................................................ 41 	Global	Financing	.................................................................. 49 report of Management .........................................................54 report of independent registered public accounting firm ....55 consolidated statements .......................................................5618 	2006 Annual Report11ManageMent Discussioninternational business Machines corporation anD subsiDiary coMpanies11ManageMent Discussioninternational business Machines corporation anD subsiDiary coMpaniesManageMent Discussioninternational business Machines corporation anD subsiDiary coMpanies 	Year	in	Review...................................................................... 	Prior	Year	in	Review	............................................................. 	Discontinued	Operations	..................................................... 	Other	Information	................................................................	Global	Financing	.................................................................. 49 report of Management .........................................................54 report of independent registered public accounting firm ....55 consolidated statements .......................................................56	20 	2006 Annual Report11ManageMent Discussioninternational business Machines corporation anD subsiDiary coMpanies	Year	in	Review...................................................................... 	Prior	Year	in	Review	............................................................. 	Discontinued	Operations	..................................................... 	Other	Information	................................................................	Global	Financing	.................................................................. 49 report of Management .........................................................54 report of independent registered public accounting firm ....55 consolidated statements .......................................................56	20 	2006 Annual ReportManageMent Discussioninternational business Machines corporation anD subsiDiary coMpaniesManageMent Discussioninternational business Machines corporation anD subsiDiary coMpanies 	Year	in	Review...................................................................... 	Prior	Year	in	Review	............................................................. 	Discontinued	Operations	..................................................... 	Other	Information	................................................................	Global	Financing	.................................................................. 49 report of Management .........................................................54 report of independent registered public accounting firm ....55 consolidated statements .......................................................56	20 	2006 Annual Report11ManageMent Discussioninternational business Machines corporation anD subsiDiary coMpanies	24 	2006 Annual ReportManageMent DisCussioninternational business MaChines Corporation anD subsiDiary CoMpanies ManageMent DisCussioninternational business MaChines Corporation anD subsiDiary CoMpanies	Year	in	Review...................................................................... 	Prior	Year	in	Review	............................................................. 	Discontinued	Operations	..................................................... 	Other	Information	................................................................	Global	Financing	.................................................................. 49 report of Management .........................................................54 report of independent registered public accounting Firm ....55Consolidated statements .......................................................56	34 	2006	Annual	Report11ManageMent DisCussioninternational business MaChines Corporation anD subsiDiary CoMpanies 11ManageMent DisCussioninternational business MaChines Corporation anD subsiDiary CoMpanies ManageMent DisCussioninternational business MaChines Corporation anD subsiDiary CoMpanies		Year	in	Review...................................................................... 22		Prior	Year	in	Review	............................................................. 37	Discontinued	Operations	..................................................... 41	Other	Information	................................................................ 41 	Global	Financing	.................................................................. 49 report of Management .........................................................54 report of independent registered public accounting Firm ....55Consolidated statements .......................................................56	36 	2006	Annual	Report11ManageMent DisCussioninternational business MaChines Corporation anD subsiDiary CoMpanies		Year	in	Review...................................................................... 22		Prior	Year	in	Review	............................................................. 37	Discontinued	Operations	..................................................... 41	Other	Information	................................................................ 41 	Global	Financing	.................................................................. 49 report of Management .........................................................54 report of independent registered public accounting Firm ....55Consolidated statements .......................................................56	36 	2006	Annual	ReportManageMent DisCussioninternational business MaChines Corporation anD subsiDiary CoMpanies ManageMent DisCussioninternational business MaChines Corporation anD subsiDiary CoMpanies	Year	in	Review...................................................................... 	Prior	Year	in	Review	............................................................. 	Discontinued	Operations	..................................................... 	Other	Information	................................................................	Global	Financing	.................................................................. 49 report of Management .........................................................54 report of independent registered public accounting Firm ....55Consolidated statements .......................................................56	34 	2006	Annual	Report11ManageMent DisCussioninternational business MaChines Corporation anD subsiDiary CoMpanies 	Year	in	Review...................................................................... 	Prior	Year	in	Review	............................................................. 	Discontinued	Operations	..................................................... 	Other	Information	................................................................	Global	Financing	.................................................................. 49 report of Management .........................................................54 report of independent registered public accounting Firm ....55Consolidated statements .......................................................56	34 	2006	Annual	ReportMpanies						ManaGeMent Discussioninternational business Machines corporation anD subsiDiary coMpanies					Review......................................................................Review	............................................................. 	Operations	.....................................................Information	................................................................ 41Financing	.................................................................. 49eport of Management .........................................................54ndependent registered public accounting Firm ....55 statements .......................................................56	50	2006	Annual	Report11ManageMent DisCussioninternational business MaChines Corporation anD subsiDiary CoMpanies 	Year	in	Review...................................................................... 	Prior	Year	in	Review	............................................................. 	Discontinued	Operations	.....................................................	Other	Information	................................................................ 41 	Global	Financing	.................................................................. 49 report of Management .........................................................54 report of independent registered public accounting Firm ....55Consolidated statements .......................................................56	48 	2006	Annual	Report54	2006	Annual	Report11Mpanies								54	2006	Annual	Report79797980889662	2006	Annual	Report1179797980889662	2006	Annual	ReportnoteS to conSolidated Financial StatementSinternational buSineSS machineS corPoration and SubSidiary comPanieSnoteS to conSolidated Financial StatementSinternational buSineSS machineS corPoration and SubSidiary comPanieS. E..Inventories........................................................................ 79. F..Financing.Receivables...................................................... 79. G..Plant,.Rental.Machines.and.Other.Property.................... 79H-M......................................................................................... 80N-S.......................................................................................... 88T-X........................................................................................... 96	66 	2006?Annual?Report11noteS to conSolidated Financial StatementSinternational buSineSS machineS corPoration and SubSidiary comPanieS11noteS to conSolidated Financial StatementSinternational buSineSS machineS corPoration and SubSidiary comPanieSnoteS to conSolidated Financial StatementSinternational buSineSS machineS corPoration and SubSidiary comPanieS	74 	2006?Annual?Report11noteS to conSolidated Financial StatementSinternational buSineSS machineS corPoration and SubSidiary comPanieS. F..Financing.Receivables...................................................... 79. G..Plant,.Rental.Machines.and.Other.Property.................... 79H-M......................................................................................... 80N-S.......................................................................................... 88T-X........................................................................................... 96	72 	2006?Annual?ReportNotes to CoNsolidated FiNaNCial statemeNtsiNterNatioNal busiNess maChiNes CorporatioN aNd subsidiary CompaNiesNotes to CoNsolidated FiNaNCial statemeNtsiNterNatioNal busiNess maChiNes CorporatioN aNd subsidiary CompaNies. H..Investments.and.Sundry.Assets....................................... 80. I..Intangible.Assets.Including.Goodwill................................ 80. J..Securitization.of.Receivables............................................ 81. K..Borrowings....................................................................... 81. L..Derivatives.and.Hedging.Transactions............................. 83. M..Other.Liabilities............................................................... 87N-S.......................................................................................... 88T-X........................................................................................... 96	82 	2006	Annual	Report11noteS to conSolidated Financial StatementSinternational buSineSS machineS corPoration and SubSidiary comPanieS. H..Investments.and.Sundry.Assets....................................... 80. I..Intangible.Assets.Including.Goodwill................................ 80. J..Securitization.of.Receivables............................................ 81. K..Borrowings....................................................................... 81. L..Derivatives.and.Hedging.Transactions............................. 83. M..Other.Liabilities............................................................... 87N-S.......................................................................................... 88T-X........................................................................................... 96	80 	2006?Annual?ReportnOtes tO COnsOlidated FinanCial statementsinternatiOnal business maChines COrpOratiOn and subsidiary COmpaniesnOtes tO COnsOlidated FinanCial statementsinternatiOnal business maChines COrpOratiOn and subsidiary COmpanies. S..Earnings.Per.Share.of.Common.Stock.............................. 95T-X........................................................................................... 96	90 	2006 Annual Report11Notes to CoNsolidated FiNaNCial statemeNtsiNterNatioNal busiNess maChiNes CorporatioN aNd subsidiary CompaNies.... .. S..Earnings.Per.Share.of.Common.Stock.............................. 95T-X........................................................................................... 96	88 	2006	Annual	ReportnOtes tO COnsOlidated FinanCial statementsinternatiOnal business maChines COrpOratiOn and subsidiary COmpaniesnOtes tO COnsOlidated FinanCial statementsinternatiOnal business maChines COrpOratiOn and subsidiary COmpanies... .. S..Earnings.Per.Share.of.Common.Stock.............................. 95T-X........................................................................................... 96	92 	2006 Annual Report11nOtes tO COnsOlidated FinanCial statementsinternatiOnal business maChines COrpOratiOn and subsidiary COmpanies... .. S..Earnings.Per.Share.of.Common.Stock.............................. 95T-X........................................................................................... 96	92 	2006 Annual ReportnOtes tO COnsOlidated FinanCial statementsinternatiOnal business maChines COrpOratiOn and subsidiary COmpaniesnOtes tO COnsOlidated FinanCial statementsinternatiOnal business maChines COrpOratiOn and subsidiary COmpanies... .. X..Subsequent.Events........................................................115	96 	2006 Annual Report11nOtes tO COnsOlidated FinanCial statementsinternatiOnal business maChines COrpOratiOn and subsidiary COmpanies... .. X..Subsequent.Events........................................................115	96 	2006 Annual ReportnOtes tO COnsOlidated FinanCial statementsinternatiOnal business maChines COrpOratiOn and subsidiary COmpaniesnOtes tO COnsOlidated FinanCial statementsinternatiOnal business maChines COrpOratiOn and subsidiary COmpanies	24 	2006 Annual Report11nOtes tO COnsOlidated FinanCial statementsinternatiOnal business maChines COrpOratiOn and subsidiary COmpanies. X..Subsequent.Events........................................................115100 2006 Annual ReportNotes to CoNsolidated FiNaNCial statemeNtsiNterNatioNal busiNess maChiNes CorporatioN aNd subsidiary CompaNiesNotes to CoNsolidated FiNaNCial statemeNtsiNterNatioNal busiNess maChiNes CorporatioN aNd subsidiary CompaNiesN-S.......................................................................................... 88T-X........................................................................................... 96. T..Rental.Expense.and.Lease.Commitments........................ 96. U..Stock-Based.Compensation............................................. 96 . V..Retirement-Related.Benefits..........................................100. W..Segment.Information....................................................111 . X..Subsequent.Events........................................................115106 2006	Annual	Report11nOtes tO COnsOlidated FinanCial statementsinternatiOnal business maChines COrpOratiOn and subsidiary COmpaniesN-S.......................................................................................... 88T-X........................................................................................... 96. T..Rental.Expense.and.Lease.Commitments........................ 96. U..Stock-Based.Compensation............................................. 96 . V..Retirement-Related.Benefits..........................................100. W..Segment.Information....................................................111 . X..Subsequent.Events........................................................115104 2006 Annual ReportiNterNatioN116 	2006	Annual	Report11116 	2006	Annual	Report116 	2006	Annual	Report1111